Skip to main content
Search

 UPLOAD
 SIGN UP | LOG IN
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "- Warhammer 40K BOOKS COLLECTION -"
See other formats






-w 

























m 




c 







FOR MORE THAN A HUNDRED CENTURIES THE 
EMPEROR HAS SAT IMMOBILE ON THE GOLDEN 
THRONE OF EARTH. HE IS THE * 

MASTER OF MANKIND BY THE WILL OF THE 
GODS AND MASTER OF A MILLION WORLDS 
BY THE MIGHT OF HIS INEXHAUSTIBLE 
ARMIES. HE IS A ROTTING CARCASS WRITHING 
INVISIBLY WITH POWER FROM THE DARK AGE 
OF TECHNOLOGY. HE IS THE CARRION LORD 
OF THE IMPfiRIUM, FOR WHOM A THOUSAND 
SOULS DIE EVERY DAY, FOR WHOM BLOOD IS 
DRUNK AND FLESH EATEN. HUMAN BLOOD 
AND HUMAN FLESH - THE STUF^F OF WHICH 
* THE IMPERIUM IS MADE. TO BE A MAN IN 
■SUCH TIMES IS TO BE ONE AMONGST UNTOLD 
BILLIONS, IT IS TO LIVE IN THE CRUELLEST AND 
MOST BLOODY REGIME IMAGINABLE. THIS IS 

THE TALE OF THOSE TIMES. 

- ♦ 


IT IS A UNIVERSE YOU CAN LIVE TODAY - 
IF YOU DARE - FOR THIS IS A DARK AND 
TERRIBLE ERA WHERE YOT?f WILL FIND LITTLE 
COMFORT OR HOPE. IF YOU WANT TO TAKE 
PART IN THE ADVENTURE, THEN PREPARE 
YOURSELF NOW. FORGET THE POWER OF 
TECHNOLOGY, SCIENCE AND COMMON 
HUMANITY. FORGET THE PROMISE OF 
PROGRESS AND UNDERSTANDING, FOR THERE 
IS NO PEACE AMONGST THE STARS, ONLY AN 
ETERNITY OF CARNAGE AND SLAUGHTER AND 
THE LAUGHTER OF THIRSTING GODS. 


BUT THE UNIVERSE IS A BIG PLACE AND, 
WHATEVER HAPPENS, YOU WILL NOT 
BE MISSED... 



I see a rising deluge of violence drowning Humanity’s worlds. Like the sea crashing upon the cliffs, it grinds and crushes with every surge. 
Entropy. Cruelty. Lunacy and hatred. These are the weapons of the Enemy. The tides of Chaos have toppled civilisations, bringing them 
from supremacy to the brink of annihilation. Blindly does Mankind make that same journey, now standing on the edge of the abyss. 




















I see the trickling sands of time, blown thin in the winds of war. The celestial clock chimes loud, its deathly knell the doom of all. The hour 
of Ending is nigh. I see the creatures of the Warp, jealous and hungry, tearing at the fabric of reality with talon and tempest. They seek to 
rule over us, to wrest reality itself from our mortal grip. With each passing night, they bring the galaxy closer to eternal damnation. 












'i 

Jv M 

1 

A M 












CONTENTS 


Mankind and the Immaterium.. 


Ages of Mankind . 


Primaris Armoury.. 


Space Wolves. 


Imperium At War . 


.12 

Forces of Chaos . 

. 92 

..14 

The Chaos Gods . 

. 94 

..16 

Daemons of Chaos . 

. 96 

..18 

Heretic Astartes . 

. 98 


Black Legion . 

. 98 

.22 

Death Guard . 

. 99 

.24 

Thousand Sons . 

.100 

,.28 

Renegades . 

.101 

..30 

Chaos Unbound . 

.102 

,.32 



..34 

TheXenos Threat . 

10 

,.36 

The Aeldari . 

.112 

..39 

Craftworlds . 

.114 

...40 

Craftworld Aeldari . 

. 116 

,.42 

Drukhari . 

. 118 

..44 

Harlequins . 

. 120 

...46 

Ynnari . 

. 121 

..48 

Necrons . 

. 122 

,.50 

Orks . 

. 126 


T’au Empire . 

. 132 

.56 

Tyranid Hive Fleets . 

. 136 

...58 

Genestealer Cults . 

. 140 

,.59 

Alien Menace . 

. 142 

..60 



..62 

Eternity of War . 

1 52 

• •••••••••••••••••••••X kJa* 

,.63 

War Zone: Ultramar . 

. 154 

,.64 

The Fall of Cadia . 

.160 

,.65 

War Zone: Stygius . 

.164 

..66 

The Blood Crusade . 

.166 

,.67 

Craftworld Iyanden . 

.167 

,.67 

Armageddon . 

.167 

..68 

War in the Rift . 

.167 

,.72 



...74 



...75 



..76 



,.78 















THE EMPEROR PROTECTS. 




































































•Cl 




YOU MUST FIGHT TODAY OR PREPARE TO FIGHT TOMORROW! 




There is Only War .168 

Playing the Game .170 

Open Play .171 

Narrative Play .172 

Matched Play .173 

Datasheets .174 

Core Rules .176 

Example Turn .184 

Fighting a Battle .186 

Only War .187 

Open Play .188 

War Without End .190 

Annihilation .191 

Hold At All Costs .191 

Death or Glory .191 

Narrative Play .192 

Narrative Play Mission Rules .194 

Crucible of War: Meat Grinder .196 

Crucible of War: Ambush! .198 

Crucible of War: Patrol .200 

Crucible of War: Blitz .202 

Crucible of War: Sabotage .204 

Crucible of War: Rescue .206 

Historical Battles .210 

Echoes of War: Ambush at Dhorak Pass .211 

Matched Play .212 

Choose Armies .214 

Choose Mission .215 

Standard Deployment Maps .216 

Eternal War: Retrieval Mission .218 


Eternal War: No Mercy .219 

Eternal War: The Scouring .220 

Eternal War: Big Guns Never Tire .221 

Eternal War: Secure and Control .222 

Eternal War: The Relic .223 

Tactical Objectives .226 

Maelstrom of War: Cleanse and Capture .230 

Maelstrom of War: Contact Lost .231 

Maelstrom of War: Tactical Escalation .232 

Maelstrom of War: Spoils of War .233 

Maelstrom of War: Cloak and Shadows .234 

Maelstrom of War: Deadlock .235 

Advanced Rules .238 

Battle-forged Armies .240 

Battlefield Terrain .248 

Battlezones .252 

Battlezone: Night Fight .252 

Battlezone: Fire and Fury .253 

Battlezone: Psychic Maelstrom .253 

Planestrike .254 

Planetstrike: Planetfall .257 

Cities of Death .258 

Cities of Death: Firesweep .261 

Stronghold Assault .262 

Stronghold Assault: Bunker Assault .265 

Death From the Skies .266 

Death From the Skies: Tactical Strike .269 

Multiplayer Battles .270 

Multiplayer Battle: Carnage .271 

Campaigns .272 

Appendix .276 


PRODUCED BY GAMES WORKSHOP IN NOTTINGHAM 


© Copyright Games Workshop Limited 2017. GW, Games Workshop, Space Marine, 40K, Dark Imperium, Warhammer, Warhammer 40,000, the ‘Aquila’ 
Double-headed Eagle logo, and all associated logos, illustrations, images, names, creatures, races, vehicles, locations, weapons, characters, and the distinctive 
likenesses thereof, are either ® or TM, and/or © Games Workshop Limited, variably registered around the world. All Rights Reserved. 

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, 
recording or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers. 

This is a work of fiction. All the characters and events portrayed in this book are fictional, and any resemblance to real people or incidents is purely coincidental. 
British Cataloguing-in-Publication Data. A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library. Pictures used for illustrative purposes only. 

Certain Citadel products may be dangerous if used incorrectly and Games Workshop does not recommend them for use by children under the age of 16 without adult 
supervision. Whatever your age, be careful when using glues, bladed equipment and sprays and make sure that you read and follow the instructions on the packaging. 


Games Workshop Ltd, Willow Rd, Lenton, Nottingham, NG7 2WS 

games-workshop.com 

































































0 


Welcome to the grim darkness of the far future! Warhammer 40,000 is a tabletop game in which you 
command an army of mighty warriors, but it’s also a wide-ranging hobby that includes collecting, 
building and painting Citadel Miniatures. This book is the launching pad for all this - and much more! 



The Warhammer 40,000 hobby is 
a unique window into a world of 
excitement and adventure set in the 
Dark Imperium, where the empire 
of Mankind is beset from all sides. 
Daemon-worshipping heretics and 
myriad alien horrors surge from the 
darkness between the stars, intent 
upon bringing ruin and discord to 
the Emperors realm. Against them 
stand the resolute armies of the 
Imperium, from the superhuman 
Space Marines and the pious Sisters 
of Battle to the innumerable ranks 
of the Astra Militarum and the 
towering war engines of the Knight 
households. A million worlds burn 
with the fires of war even as they 
echo to the monstrous laughter of 
the Dark Gods. 


This apocalyptic setting provides 
endless opportunities for collecting, 
building, painting and gaming. 
Perhaps you’re inspired to collect 
vast armies and fight out the epic 
battles described in the background. 
Maybe you find yourself drawn 
to the idea of painting beautiful 
display figures and building scenic 
snapshots of strange alien worlds 
within which to display them. 
Maybe it’s all about building the 
most amazing war machines you 
can conceive of, or finding a good 
excuse to spend an afternoon with 
like-minded friends, painting or 
gaming together. In truth there is 


no right or wrong way to go about 
engaging with the Warhammer 
40,000 hobby - it’s best to just find 
what you most enjoy and go for 
it. From gaming tournaments and 
campaign events to world-class 
painting competitions, from dining- 
table warfare to exciting battles at 
local clubs, there’s a world of fun to 
be had with Warhammer 40,000, 
so strap on your armour, load your 
bolter and get ready for war! 


Nothing brings a game of 
Warhammer 40,000 to life like 
a battlefield full of assembled 
and painted terrain. Here, the 
Ultramarines defend their home 
world of Macragge against the 
nefarious Death Guard. 














% vj 
(*.. 


fs? trfam 


n^n ! Ja 


=Slf?7?Rf§f 







x v Tx:. 'j-^[ ’ 




\ %\ 








































$ / 





EOLLEETING EITADEL MINIATURES 


From ground-shaking war engines to scuttling xenos swarms, heavily armed combat aircraft to brave 
infantrymen and the courageous heroes who lead them, the ever-growing range of Warhammer 40,000 
Citadel Miniatures is incredibly vast and varied. 





i 


0 

§ 


Grand armies surge into battle 
across war-torn worlds from one 
end of the galaxy to the other. 
Regiments of infantry dig in behind 
corpse-shored barricades. Space 
Marine Drop Pods streak down 
from orbit through burning skies 
to disgorge armoured warriors 
into the heart of the foe. Artillery 
pieces roar as they fling megatonne 
explosives into the enemy ranks, 
while hurtling xenos skimmers and 
rumbling, spike-studded tanks duel 
through the blazing ruins of once- 
glorious cities. Everywhere, storied 
heroes and black-hearted villains 
lock blades, screaming praise to 
their uncaring gods as they battle to 
the death. 


A big part of the Warhammer 
40,000 hobby is collecting the 
warriors and war machines that 
fight these spectacular battles, 
building and painting them to 
create an exciting and diverse 
collection of which you can be 
rightly proud. There are many 
ways to go about this, and all 
of them are equally valid. For 
many hobbyists, the end goal is 
to collect an army with which 
to play games of Warhammer 
40,000. Such collections usually 
comprise a variety of heroes, 
warriors, armoured fighting 
vehicles and rampaging monsters. 
Others prefer to collect and paint 
only the mightiest heroes, or to 


assemble their collections based 
around a theme, such as massed 
battle tanks, aerial armadas, or 
elite teams of specialist killers. 

Still other hobbyists might collect 
their models based upon the 
exciting stories presented in Games 
Workshops novels and gaming 
supplements. Whatever inspires 
you, whether collecting for display, 
tabletop wargaming or both, this is 
an exceptionally rewarding hobby. 
Watching your collection grow 
from a handful of models to a fully 
realised army brings a real sense 
of pride and achievement, not to 
mention the tangible reward of 
having a fantastic array of dynamic 
Citadel Miniatures to admire. 



Hi 








3Sf!Sp > .^SSSfc' •CsjgV’" — 












































Most collections begin with a few miniatures, whether it be a squad of warriors, a character model, or the contents of 
a Start Collecting! box. This Genestealer Cult army has grown to encompass a huge variety of different unit types. 


ip o o © 






























iTBi 0 Tnr~TMr~ 


—- .~-X 


%* is 


~ 4 * 

^ ^*W <__ ■ e ^V ^J -ti 

TiH ^ 


- ^ ~ - 


,^- N v .. 

^ Tt_ ">■* ^ *fi.< 


O 


The Citadel Paint System 
works layer by layer, and 
takes you through building 
up from basecoats and 
washes to highlights and 
special effects to create 
jaw-droppingly impressive 
models. It’s a straightforward 
system, with highly 
rewarding results. 


I .wL^lM-^W f% 


BUILDING AND PAINTING 

Constructing and painting your Citadel Miniatures is a tactile and satisfying experience. Whether 
following instructions and painting guides, or creating custom conversions and inventing your own 
bespoke colour schemes, this part of the hobby is where you really get to personalise your collection! 


Most Citadel Miniatures do not 
come as a single, pre-built piece. 
Rather, they are intended to be 
assembled using modelling tools 
and glue, and then painted in 
the colours and schemes that 
you choose. To this end, Games 
Workshop produces a range 
of specialist tools and a huge 
selection of Citadel Paints - with 
the accompanying Citadel Paint 
System - that allow you to easily 
and enjoyably build and paint 
the miniatures that make up your 
personal collection. 

Many people derive a great deal 
of enjoyment from this, revelling 
in the creative process and taking 
pride in making the best-looking 
miniatures they possibly can. 


A well-painted army really brings 
a game of Warhammer 40,000 to 
life on the tabletop, to the extent 
that you can almost hear the 
tank engines roar and the bolters 
boom. With the inclusion of a 
few pieces from the huge range of 
Citadel terrain, built and painted to 
complement your army, you’ll have 
the makings of an epic tabletop 
narrative that will live on as a war 
story amongst your gaming group 
for years to come! 

Initially, the notion of putting 
models together and painting 
them yourself might seem a 
daunting prospect. Yet with just 
a few easy-to-learn techniques 
from the Citadel Paint System 
- such as basecoating, washing 


and drybrushing - and a bit of 
practice, you will amaze yourself 
with the results you can achieve. 
Information on the Citadel Paint 
System is readily available from 
Games Workshop staff members, 
Internet tutorial videos and various 
Citadel publications. 

Whether you are carefully 
crafting a single, beautiful model 
for a painting competition, or 
assembling and batch-painting 
whole companies and squadrons 
of infantry, tanks and aircraft 
ready for massed battle, the only 
limit to what you can achieve is 
your imagination. And your skills 
will grow with every new project 
you complete, until you become a 
master artisan! 






I ® 


o 









Citadel Miniatures are provided 
unassembled and unpainted. Using 
Citadel Fine Detail Cutters, and 
following the assembly instructions 
provided with each kit, collectors 
clip their models’ components out 
of their plastic frames and assemble 
them piece by piece using plastic 
glue. Building armies of miniatures 
is a satisfying experience that many 
collectors enjoy tremendously - and 
with a head swap here and a piece 
of re-posing there, there’s also great 
scope for converting miniatures 
to become unique additions to 
your army. 




Once your miniatures are built, the 
last step in bringing them to life is 
to paint them in the colours you 
choose. Games Workshop provides 
a wealth of painting guides, walk¬ 
throughs and instructional videos 
to help with this process, not to 
mention reams of material showing 
possible colour schemes to guide 
and inspire your creative efforts. 
Head to games-workshop.com 
to see the entire range of paints, 
painting-related products, books 
and a variety of step-by-step videos 
covering the schemes for a huge 
range of Citadel Miniatures. 


I 







Jk 




* m i v Ill'Ll ^ — 

bxsecoatinci . ■ 


l.'.LA'- ! 


.. . - 'MV 


























wfs 



o e 


WARHAMMER 4D.D0D GAMING 

Mighty armies advance across tabletop battlefields to bring ruin to their foes. Desperate last stands and 
heroic duels play out amidst blasted cityscapes and carnivorous alien jungles. Every game tells its own 
dramatic tale, immersing you ever deeper in the war-torn galaxy of the far future. 



Deadly dogfights through city 
spires, crashing tank battles over 
fiery plains, thunderous firefights 
between demigod war engines, 
and desperate battles to banish 
Daemons back to the hells from 
which they crawled; all of this and 
more can occur during a game of 
Warhammer 40,000. It really is a 
universe of limitless possibilities. 

For many hobbyists, playing 
tabletop wargames is as much 
the desired end product of 
gathering and painting an army 
as the collecting process itself. 

The kind of game people look for 
varies immensely, however, from 


friendly mutual storytelling to 
highly competitive tournament 
play. Luckily, whether you are 
seeking to forge a thrilling 
narrative, play in a blistering 
head-to-head deathmatch, or even 
weave game after game into an 
ongoing campaign of conquest, the 
Warhammer 40,000 hobby offers 
ample opportunity to engage with 
any or all of these ways to play. 

Many people like to start small, 
learning the rules by pitting a 
handful of squads against one 
another. As your collection grows, 
however, so too do your options. 
Soon enough you will find yourself 
plunging headlong into the grim 
darkness of Warhammer 40,000, 
and fighting battles you will 
remember for years to come. 


Here, Steve and Natalie are 
using their Death Guard and 
Ultramarines in battle. A game 
this size can last a couple of 
hours - and later in this book 
you’ll find many different 
missions to play and enjoy. 


The Warhammer 40,000 universe 
is vast and home to many different 
factions, all vying for dominance. 
The sprawling Imperium of Man 
sets itself against Chaos-tainted 
traitors and heretics, while vile 
xenos seek to invade at every 
opportunity. The battlefields they 
fight over are grand and fantastical 
in scale, encompassing everything 
from grim fortress monasteries 
and gothic hive cities the size of 
continents to arid, crystalline 
deserts, volcanic death worlds, 
ancient alien techno-crypts, and 
whatever else your imagination 
can conjure up. Just as varied 
as the spectacular landscapes of 
Warhammer 40,000 are the battles 
themselves. From elite commando 
raids and assassination missions 
to immense battles between 
millions of warriors, every 
sort of warfare imaginable 
fills the Imperium of 
Man from end to end. 












— 




o 









OPEN PLAY 

Totally unrestricted, open play is 
the quickest and easiest method 
of playing Warhammer 40,000. 

All you need are some models, a 
copy of the rules, a few dice and a 
tape measure - and of course an 
opponent to battle against! Fun and 
friendly, open play allows you to use 
whatever models you choose, and 
often involves two players hurling 
their entire collections into the 
field to see what happens. Needless 
to say, the results are always 
spectacular, and provide plenty of 
memorable war stories for post¬ 
game discussion. 


NARRATIVE PLAY 

Although fighting an impromptu 
battle with any of your miniatures 
to hand is quick and fun, many 
people like to forge carefully 
thought-out narratives for their 
games and miniatures, developing 
strong themes for their armies that 
involve unifying colour schemes 
and background. Narrative play 
involves players using their games 
and battlefields to tell exciting 
stories, and often sees them creating 
an overarching narrative to bind 
several games into a campaign. It’s a 
fantastic way to take your hobby to 
the next level. 



% 



4 










MATCHED PLAY 

Many players enjoy the more 
competitive element of the 
Warhammer 40,000 hobby, playing 
games to see who can come out 
on top. Matched play facilitates 
this by bringing an extra level of 
balance to players’ armies, placing 
restrictions upon the units they 
can take and allowing them an 
even number of points with which 
to pick their forces. This type of 
play is most commonly seen at 
gaming tournaments and events, 
and means that no matter who you 
play, or with what armies, you can 
be assured of a close-run and nail- 
biting battle to the death! 


























‘We are beset on all sides by vile 
predatory aliens and sedition 
gnaws at us from within; in this 
dark hour the best we can do is 
look to our wargear and pray 


to our gods. 


- Skolak a’Trellar IV, 
Imperial Commander 

























L'« 


Uncounted billions are born in squalour, labour 
in pain each day of their adult lives, then die in the 
streets, unsung and unmourned. They are blessed to 
do so, for in this way, they serve the Emperor. There is 
no greater calling. 


pm 


THE IMPERIUM DF MAN 


THOUGHT FOR THE DAY: BEWARE THE ENEMY WITHIN! 


After more than forty thousand years of war and strife among the stars, Humanity stands on the brink of 
extinction. Beset on all sides by hostile aliens and threatened from within by traitors, Humanity’s only 
chance for survival rests with the continuation of the cruel and bloody regime known as the Imperium. 
Yet few amongst Mankind’s untold population realise the full truth of their situation or the horrible fate 
that looms beyond the stars. If there is any future at all, it is a grim one... 


The Imperium stretches across the galaxy. At its heart 
is Holy Terra, the cradle of Humanity and the starting 
point of an empire that contains countless trillions of 
souls. Despite its great size, the Imperium is spread 
thinly across this immense expanse; its worlds are 
dotted through the void and often divided by hundreds, 
if not thousands, of light years. It is therefore wrong 
to think of the Imperium in terms of a single, united 
territory; it is rather a sprawling and often hopelessly 
disconnected domain. Yet by the weight of its own 
immensity, the Imperium continues to expand, its 
momentum carrying it forwards even while vast 
segments deep within its boundaries are cut off, isolated, 
or remain to this day wholly unexplored. 


LOST AGES OF HISTORY 

Some four hundred centuries have passed since man 
first stepped into the cold of space. Forty thousand 
years. An age so long that almost its entire history lies 
shrouded in legend. Who knows how Mankind came 
to be scattered across so many disparate worlds? Who 
remembers the wars that split their home world of Terra 
asunder and dragged Humanity down to the level of 
brute beasts? Who would recognise the names of Terras 
ancient ruins, of nations destroyed and peoples long 
since crumbled to dust? To these questions there can 
be no answers. The questions themselves died upon the 
lips of men tens of thousands of years past. From those 
times come only whispers of horror and death, of the 
ancient days of the Age of Technology, of the Realm of 
Night, of the Empire of Blood, and of the terrible long 
centuries of the Age of Strife. 


But those eras are in the distant past; now is the time 
of the Emperor, the Age of the Imperium, though they 
are dark days indeed. It is an age already ten thousand 
years old and it, too, is shrouded in myth and steeped 
in ignorance. It is a time of superstition, an era in 
which great and unfathomable technologies have been 
enslaved by the forces of mysticism and madness. Most 
of all, it is an epoch of war, a grinding, unceasing war 
where mere survival is justly hailed as victory. Defeat 
can only lead to the irrevocable end of Humanity. Of 
the wars the Emperor waged to build his empire, of the 
countless agonies of his battles amongst the stars, there 
are no complete records, only apocryphal tales and half- 
remembered legends. And there is only one who might 
remember it all. 

THE EMPEROR 

When the Emperor led Mankind to spread once more 
across the galaxy, over a hundred centuries ago, it 
marked the end of a long era of history, an age of dark 
regression, bitter factionalism, and great isolation 
caused by rampant warp storms and countless alien 
invasions. Not even the ancient records kept by the 
Historitors of the Adeptus Administratum tell the 
full tale of how the Emperor came to unite and rule 
Humanity, or how the newly birthed Imperium came 
to be from whatever barbarism existed before it. 
Legends speak of the creation of the Space Marines, the 


















F 


t*' Wr 


J !L > 


o © 


o 



CHAOS CONSUMES ALL. 


ijgBBId MMlL^ 




■A 




launching of the Great Crusade and the brief time of 
illumination it brought before the terrible wars of the 
Horns Heresy plunged all into darkness once again. 

The truth lies buried under millennia of superstition, 
submerged beneath centuries of myth or lost to the 
annals of forgotten history. Perhaps there is a secret 
scriptorium in some oubliette of the Imperial Palace 
where the truth might be found, recorded in ancient 
tomes and locked behind adamantine doors. If there 
is such a place, it is best that it remains hidden. Its 
truths would be denied and its readers burnt for their 
heretical tendencies. Those ancient days will surely 
remain shrouded in mystery unless the Emperor himself 
chooses to reveal his knowledge, although none can 
guess what thoughts revolve inside his carrion skull. 

Once, the Emperor lived and breathed as a mortal man, 
but his physical life has long since ended, crushed out 
of him by Horns, the Arch-traitor, in the final battle 
for Terra. Today, many thousands of years later, the 
Emperor lives only by the immeasurable force of his 
supreme will. The stasis fields and psi-fusion reactors 
of the machine known as the Golden Throne preserve 
his broken and decayed body; his great mind endures 
inside a rotting carcass, kept alive by the mysteries of 
ancient technology. His immense psychic powers reach 
out from the Golden Throne, enveloping and protecting 
Mankind across the enemy-strewn galaxy, a beacon of 
light in the malevolent darkness. 

If the Emperor fails, then none will be able to stop the 
influx of the dark powers; ravenous and all-consuming 
Daemons will flood into the galaxy. Every living human 
will become a gateway for the destruction of Mankind. 
Reality will be subsumed by the stuff of the warp - a 
realm of nightmares and cruel insanity. There will be no 
physical matter. No space. No time. Only Chaos. 

THE IMPERIUM LIVES 

The Emperor has neither spoken nor moved since his 
incarceration in the Golden Throne. His revered body 
is, for all intents, dead. His psychic mind is wholly 
preoccupied combating the denizens of the warp. 
Fighting an eternal battle against the unimaginable 
horrors of that realm for the preservation of Mankind, 
all that is left of the Emperor is a consciousness divorced 
from the material world, a mind incapable of ordinary 
communication with his empire of devoted servants. He 
has given all so that the Imperium he founded might 
continue. And so it has. While it has diverged greatly 
from his original plan, the Imperium endures. 

No longer followed merely as Humanity’s leader, the 
Emperor is now worshipped as a god, the holy deity 
in whose name the Imperium is ruled. Superstition 
and dogma have become the rituals of worship and 
they are spread as gospel, with blind obedience 


commended and free thought viewed with suspicion 
and hostility. In the Emperor’s name, the High Lords 
of Terra guide the Imperium, their commands carried 
out by the uncountable offices of the Adeptus Terra. Its 
labyrinthine subordinate organisations extend to every 
human world, and no man is free from its influence or 
from the strictures of its rule. Even with the galaxy riven 
by war and warp storms, information is gathered, laws 
are enforced, taxes are levied. So it has been done, so it 
continues. The cogs of the bureaucracy turn relentlessly 
without thought or consideration. That the sprawling 
Imperium is besieged from every angle by xenos and 
threatened with a hideous doom by the powers of Chaos 
has only reinforced the empire’s irrational extremism. 

Hunkering behind the parapets of a million scattered 
worlds, Mankind looks out upon a hostile galaxy with 
dread. Only the Imperium’s armies stand between its 
citizens and terrors worse than extinction. And in this 
hour of greatest need, a Primarch returned, striding 
from legends of the past. As the Imperium grows ever 
darker, the ignorant masses are told that only their faith 
in the God-Emperor can now protect them. Perversely, 
it is true. So long as the Emperor survives, sitting in his 
silent vigil, there remains yet a shred of hope. 


The soul is the most valuable prize of all. Souls hold 
the seeds of salvation; motes of divinity that flourish 
in the light of the Emperor. But the weeds of heresy 
can take root in the unwary. Beware the heretic, for 
he wears the face of man. 










ORBITS OF POWER 



Emperor shines 
at the heart ( 
the Imperium. ,, 
The fate of Mankind 
revolves around the: 
weighty decisions of 
his High Lords* I 
I 


There exist in the 
Imperium several 
organisations whose 
remit is to eradicate 
innovation; many a 
costly civil war has 
been triggered by an 
incautious visionary. 


The many organisations of the 
Imperium are so complex and 
byzantine that to detail even a 
fraction of them would take the 
life’s work of a dedicated house 
of scriveners. Nonetheless, the 
mainstays of that star-spanning 
empire remain, their influence 
waxing and waning as the 
dictates of Holy Terra lead to 
ascendancy or decline. 


Each of the ImperiunTs organisations has a 
sphere of influence that expands and contracts as 
leaders rise to prominence or fall into obscurity. 
Their agents and armies often cross paths - and 
sometimes cross swords - with those who share 
a similar interest. Even should every alien threat 
be wiped from the cosmos in an instant, the 
Imperium would still be wracked by the tempests 
of war. Such is the bellicose nature of Mankind. 






I 

I 


HIERARCHY DF THE IMPERIUM 

The Imperium is colossal, the distances between its many planets immense. Even simple communication 
often proves impossible. Despite rampant confusion and misinterpretation, labyrinthine Imperial 
organisations struggle to maintain an increasingly dystopian order. 





HIGH LORDS 
OF TERRA 

They govern the 
destiny of Mankind. 

These twelve individuals rule the 
Imperium in the Emperors name. 

It is they who send the Imperium’s 
fleets to war and direct its nigh- 
inexhaustible armies. Their task 
is to interpret the silent will of the 
Emperor, relying on his potent 
mind to guide their thoughts and 
inspire their actions. Nine seats 
are virtually sacrosanct, such as 
the Master of the Administratum, 
the Paternoval Envoy of the Navis 
Nobilite, and the Fabricator General 
of the Adeptus Mechanicus; other 
posts are filled from a range of the 
highest officials. 


ADEPTUS 
TERRA 

The Masters of the 
Earth, their will be done. 

The Adeptus Terra is the central 
bureaucratic organisation of 
the Imperium and not really an 
agency itself. It is made up of many 
autonomous departments that 
receive the orders of the High Lords 
of Terra, passing them down to the 
different branches that then enact 
the commands. 


ADEPTUS 
ADMINISTRATUM 
Upon them turn the wheels 
of governance. 

The largest organisation in the 
Adeptus Terra, the Adeptus 
Administratum is itself divided into 
countless different branches. It is 
their task to manage the Imperium, 
and it is they who tithe, administer, 
record and archive. It is enough to 
perform the task; understanding is 
neither required, nor welcome. 



ADEPTUS 
MINISTORUM 

Promulgators of the 
Imperial Creed. 

The Adeptus Ministorum - 
more commonly known as the 
Ecclesiarchy - spreads the Imperial 
Cult throughout the Imperium. 

The Ecclesiarchy is not part of the 
Adeptus Terra but is a separate 
institution that hosts numerous 
subgroups of its own, the best 
known of which are its military 
wing (the Adepta Sororitas), its 
orthodox training orphanages 
(the Schola Progenium), and its 
missionaries who often accompany 
Imperial exploratory vessels (the 
Missionarus Galaxia). 

I THE INQUISITION 

The eye that sleepeth not. 

A highly secretive 
organisation, the 
Inquisition is bound by no 
authority save its own and that 
of the Emperor. The sole mission 
of the Inquisition is seeing to the 
protection of Humanity. Inquisitors 
are empowered to investigate any 
potential threat to Mankind and 
to take whatever measures they 
consider appropriate to destroy the 
danger. The end justifies any means. 


NAVIS NOBILITE 


Passage-makers, Bearers 
^ a t of the Third Eye. 

® The Navis Nobilite, also 
known as the Navigator Houses, 
are led by the Paternova to make 
up the Terra-based organisation 
from whence come all Navigators. 
One of the few sanctioned breeds 
of mutant, Navigators use their 
third eye to pilot human starships 
through the roiling madness of 
warp space. 


& 


ADEPTUS 
MECHANICUS 
The Lords of Mars and 
Disciples of the Omnissiah. 

The Tech-Priests of the Adeptus 
Mechanicus are the keepers of 
ancient knowledge and arcane 
technology. It is they who preserve 
the Emperors Golden Throne and 
they who operate the forge worlds 
that feed the Imperial armouries 
with weapons, armour, munitions, 
vital spaceships and war machines. 
The Priesthood of Mars contains 
many subdivisions, including their 
own fleets and military wings. All 
follow the Cult Mechanicus - the 
worship of the Omnissiah - and use 
intricate invocations to assemble 
and maintain their precious 
machines. Unlike most major 
Adeptus organisations, the Adeptus 
Mechanicus is not headquartered 
on Terra, but instead upon the 
original and greatest of all the forge 
worlds, the red planet of Mars. 


f ADEPTUS ASTRA 
TELEPATHICA 

Their voices pierce the 
darkness and cross the stars. 
The role of the Adeptus Astra 
Telepathica is to recruit, identify 
and classify psykers, and then to 
train those found worthy. To do 
this, the Adeptus Astra Telepathica 
is divided into two main bodies: 
the League of Black Ships and the 
Scholastica Psykana; the Master 
of the Adeptus Astra Telepathica 
presides over both. The Adeptus 
Astra Telepathica classifies many 
grades of psyker, with acceptable 
grades being channelled to serve 
the Imperium in a variety of roles. 
Those unable to pass the battery 
of harsh tests they are subjected to 
take a final path to fulfil other, less 
savoury, duties. 


Ij 




' 

1 

( 




EVEN A FAITHFUL SERVANT MAY TURN ON HIS MASTER. 


25 






Bring fire and bring shell, bring banner and blade - then heap all upon the pyre. With torch and gun we shall make an end to the 
withered husk that is human life. And in the blazing furnace of war, we shall forge anew the iron will of a yet stronger race. Let the 
flames of battle consume us! Let the inferno of war make ashes of our enemies! 







H 


ADEPTUS 
ASTRONOMICA 
They fuel the guiding light 
of the Emperor. 

The Adeptus Astronomica trains 
psykers to provide the raw psychic 
power to fuel the Astronomican, the 
psychic homing beacon that enables 
Navigators to steer through the 
warp. This task requires a choir of at 
least ten thousand psykers, and the 
role quickly destroys them. There 
are always more being trained to 
take their place, however. 


ROGUE 
TRADERS 

The hand that draws the map. 
Licensed and equipped to explore 
the vast uncharted portions of 
the galaxy, the Rogue Traders are 
the Emperors emissaries to the 
unknown. They hold full authority 
to negotiate, barter, subjugate or 
utterly destroy in pursuit of feeding 
the Imperium’s rapacious appetites 
for information, territory, alien 
artefacts and raw materials. 

yic PLANETARY 
GOVERNORS 
They rule in His name. 
Individual planets are ruled by 
local leaders. Like feudal lords of 
old, they must provide troops for 
the Astra Militarum, maintain 
order, carry out all Imperial decrees 
and pay all tithes levied by the 
Administratum, most important 
of which is the tithe of psykers. So 
long as quotas are met, a planetary 
governor may reign over his world 
in any manner he chooses. 


ADEPTUS 
ARBITES 

Keepers of the Great 
Book of Judgement. 
The Arbitrators and Judges of 
the Adeptus Terra enforce law 
in the Imperium. They maintain 
order in a way that is absolute and 
unforgiving, A rigid adherence to 
the letter of the law is paramount, 
and they breed fanaticism. 




.4_ ADEPTUS 

ASTARTES 

^ They know no fear, 

the Angels of Death. 

The Adeptus Astartes, commonly 
known as Space Marines, are the 
most powerful and dreaded of 
all Humanity’s warriors. There 
are approximately one thousand 
Chapters, each composed of one 
thousand warriors. Each maintains 
its own identity and traditions, 
autonomous of the Ecclesiarchy. 
Although few in number, the 
Adeptus Astartes are highly mobile 
shock troops trained to deploy 
quickly and to do battle anywhere. 

ASTRA 
MILITARUM 

Hammer of the Emperor, the 
Imperial Guard. 

The Astra Militarum is the largest 
fighting force of the Imperium. It 
relies on vast numbers of soldiers, 
armoured battle tanks and artillery 
to smash their foes, grinding 
them down through attrition and 
the application of devastating 
firepower. The provisioning of the 
Astra Militarum is provided by 
the Departmento Munitorum, the 
munitions and supply wing of the 
Adeptus Administratum. 


IBT IMPERIAL FLEET 
\wJr They who ply the stars, 
m they bear the biggest guns. 

All shipping within the 
Imperium falls under the purview 
of the Imperial Fleet, with the 
exception of that carried out by 
the Adeptus Astartes and a few 
other Adeptus organisations. The 
larger part of the Fleet is the Navy, 
battleships that escort cargo across 
the galaxy and serve as the first 
line of defence in any invasion 
or insurrection. Imperial Navy 
fleets are composed of battleships, 
cruisers, escort squadrons, 
transports, messenger craft, orbital 
defences, and innumerable patrol 
vessels. They are vast, star-eclipsing 
forces that carry the Emperor’s war 
across the stars. 




JL OFFICIO 

ASSASSINORUM 
X jT The dagger in the dark, the 
* silent answer. 

The Office of Assassins is a vital, if 
little known, tool of the Imperium. 
The different temples that make 
up this mysterious agency are 
all cloaked in utmost secrecy. 

Each trains matchless killers who 
strike unseen and will go to any 
lengths to complete their deadly 
missions. Only the High Lords of 
Terra themselves can sanction the 
deployment of an Assassin. 


QUESTOR 
1 IMPERIALIS 

The Glorious Households, 
Defenders from the Old Night. 
Guided by a single Noble pilot, an 
Imperial Knight is a giant armoured 
walker. Many of these proud and 
haughty warriors can trace their 
bloodlines back to Terra itself. Over 
the millennia, each pilot household 
will have sworn oaths of fealty - 
Imperial Knights are dedicated to 
the Golden Throne of Terra, and 
Mechanicus Knights to the Adeptus 
Mechanicus of Mars. Those Knights 
that have forsaken their household 
through loss, punishment, or exile 
will adopt new heraldry and fight 
on as Freeblades. 


ADEPTUS 
CUSTODES 

Bodyguards of the 
Emperor, Protectors of the 
Sanctum Imperialis. 

The Adeptus Custodes, or 
Custodian Guard, are tasked with 
guarding the Imperial Palace and 
the body of the Emperor himself. 
They are ten thousand strong, 
each a genetically engineered 
superhuman that could handily 
best even a Space Marine in trials 
of combat. The Adeptus Custodes 
serve as the Emperor’s personal 
guardians, answerable only to the 
Master of Mankind and their own 
leaders. On occasion they are seen 
off Terra, only being detached from 
their duties at the most dire of need. 



© 

1 



BRAVE ARE THEY WHO KNOW EVERYTHING YET FEAR NOTHING. 




A* 

















'i.. 


sedition, xenos invasion, or galactic phenomena, the 
Imperium continued. Colonies lost since the dawn of 
space travel were still being discovered each year. 

For a time, the Great Rift threatened to end everything. 
Its seismic shock roiled reality. The very galaxy cracked 
asunder. All sentient creatures were staggered, a wave 
of dread washing over them. Those psychically attuned 
fared far worse, as the energies of the warp poured into 
realspace. For many, doom followed. Untold billions 
died, their agony a part of the cacophony that screamed 
inside every living mind. 

Crack followed crack, running along a plane of psychic 
fault lines. A turbulent scar of raw, pulsing Chaos nearly 
severed the galaxy in two. From the Hadex Anomaly 
at the core of the Jericho Reach in the Eastern Fringe, 
to the furthest system of Segmentum Obscurus in the 
galactic north-west, there throbbed a horrible new 
presence. It was a hole that ripped open the seams of 
reality on a scale never imagined. The Eye of Terror - 
the largest and most dreaded of all warp rifts previously 
known - became but a small fraction of this massive 
new rent. The warp storms that issued forth from the 
gaping void swept to every corner of the galaxy. No 
astrocommunication could be passed from any of the 
million or so Imperial planets. Only those worlds that 
shared a solar system could remain in contact, and even 
that failed during the heights of the raging tempests. 
How many of the Imperium’s planets were lost remains 
unknown, but for a time all of them were alone, bereft 
of even the guiding beacon of the Astronomican as the 
Emperors Light blinked - and then vanished. 

In the period that followed, psychic aftershocks washed 
the galaxy, and reality itself struggled to recover from 
the horrific trauma. Eventually, those not engulfed by 
the warp storms, or too close to the baleful effects of 
the Great Rift, discovered that Astropaths could once 
more transmit interstellar messages, although the risk 
of daemonic incursion was deadlier than ever. Crusades 
were launched to re-establish contact with distant star 
systems, to retake that which could be reconquered. The 
most successful of these was the Indomitus Crusade, led 
by none other than Roboute Guilliman. The returned 
Primarch had reclaimed his title of Lord Commander 
of the Imperium, and where he travelled, faith returned. 
Yet no messages and few spacecraft could cross the 
hellish new barrier that split the galaxy. 

With the Great Rift, the always-fractured Imperium of 
Mankind became broken, its far-flung worlds cut off as 
never before. Yet it remained. The banners of the myriad 
armies of Mankind still flew high above planets untold. 


For ten thousand years, the Imperium had endured. 

One hundred centuries of constant war. Then a yet 
greater darkness descended across the galaxy. Never 
in all its long history had the Imperium known warp 
storms such as the ones that beset it following the 
Cicatrix Maledictum - the Great Rift. Terror washed 
over hundreds of thousands of planets, their last 
desperate calls received before all communications, 
even astropathic ones, fell silent. Scribes and curators in 
their billions sought answers. Through long-neglected 
records they delved, opening even the most ancient of 
vaults. Neither explanation nor comfort could be found, 
but some winnowed comparisons. The Ruinstorm had 
split the galaxy during the Horns Heresy, but only once 
had Mankind been divided as it was now: the Age of 
Strife. Its mere mention caused the learned to quail. 
Little was known of that nightmarish era, for it predated 
the Imperium, but the fragments that remain tell of a 
time when history ended, when Mankind was all but 
destroyed, the few survivors enslaved or reduced to 
barbarism. It was the end of civilisation. 

For nearly ten thousand years, the Imperium had 
established itself as the largest single empire in 
the galaxy. During that time it had endured much, 
surviving civil wars and the loss of the Emperors direct 
leadership. It had replaced the hope of enlightenment 
with draconian rule. By the weight of its own colossal 
immensity, the Imperium continued, its bureaucracy 
growing even throughout an Age of Apostasy when 
the word of the Emperor was subverted, and corrupt 
ideologues strove to claim power in their own names. 
The Imperium overcame wars beyond count. It survived 
schisms, betrayals, and its own religion that outlawed 
reason and thought. Every year planets were lost by 
the hundreds, sometimes by the thousands. Suns died, 
warp storms consumed entire systems, predatory 
xenos invaded, sweeping away those unable to defend 
themselves. Black Crusades brought further bloodshed, 
and always, the forces of Chaos reaped their bloody toll. 
So disconnected was the Imperium’s communication, so 
unwieldy their bureaucracy, that the loss of entire star 
systems might never be discovered, the information lost 
in transit or filed beneath datastacks of minutiae. 

Yet despite constant calamities, the Imperium did not 
just endure, it grew. Each year, hundreds of new planets 
were added to the fold, even while others were lost. 
Unstoppable in its momentum, the Imperium churned 
on. Explorator fleets were launched like clockwork from 
every forge world. Relentlessly, they sought former 
colonies or new planetary systems to exploit. The end 
result was a strange paradox. Even while crumbling 
at the edges, losing planetary systems by the score to 


*t « uSsa i muMM nMH 


DEATH BRINGS NO PEACE TO THE UNFAITHFUL. 


EMPIRE LOST AMONG THE STARS 















Let every thrust of the blade, every twitch of the trigger, every step and every word be trained towards the downfall of Chaos! The 
galaxy is the rightful realm of Mankind, and no other. Those who would see the Emperor’s works cast down will be cast by the heel 
into oblivion. So it is, by the might of the Adeptus Astartes, and so it shall ever be. Nightsome fiends, fear us, for we are your death! 








MANKIND AND THE IMMATERIDM 


The history of Mankind’s greatest successes and 
tragedies is directly linked to warp space, also known 
as the immaterium, or simply the warp. In a time now 
long forgotten, it was the discovery of warp space that 
allowed the first human colonisations. By entering 
that alternate dimension, it was possible to achieve 
faster-than-light speeds over interstellar distances, 
allowing fleets to travel far from Terra’s solar system. 
Mankind spread quickly, colonising the galaxy in an 
expansive age. It was also the warp - or more precisely, 
the dread powers that dwell within that realm - that 
caused the collapse that ended the otherwise gilded 
Age of Technology. 

As it transpired, warp space was not 
an empty void to be conquered by 
science. Instead, it was an infinite and 
incomprehensible realm inhabited by 
many strange and malignant entities. 

The most powerful and dangerous 
of the warp’s denizens were the four 
Great Gods of Chaos - Khorne, 

Tzeentch, Nurgle and Slaanesh 
- and their legions of Daemons. 

They desired only the destruction 
of the galaxy and longed to possess 
every living soul. Fortunately for 
Mankind, Daemons cannot easily 
leave the immaterium, and could 
only do so when they found gateways 
to bridge the gap between their dread 
domain and realspace. 

Until the Great Rift, the most common 
gateway between the warp and realspace 
was the unprotected mind of a psyker. Such a 
being draws upon the otherworldly powers of the 
immaterium, whether consciously or no, yet without 
training or exceptional will they are vulnerable to 
daemonic possession. Warp storms - sudden violent 
outbursts of energies escaping the immaterium - also 
brought violent but short-lived Daemon incursions. 
Such tempests irregularly plagued the galaxy, waxing 
and waning across sectors. There had been a time, 
during an era known as the Age of Strife, when vast 
warp storms raged unchecked for centuries. It was 
only when that overwhelming tumult abated that the 
being who would become known as the Emperor rose 
to power on Terra. First he led the Unification Wars to 
unite the populations of Terra’s solar system, and then 
he led Mankind out into the wider galaxy, to reclaim 
many of the lost colonies and end the greatest period of 
darkness Mankind had ever suffered. 


With the worst of the storms receded, the Emperor 
ordered the construction of the Astronomican. 
Broadcast from Terra by a choir of psykers and focussed 
by the Emperor’s indomitable will, this beacon shone 
through warp space, allowing Navigators to follow its 
guiding light, plotting courses through the otherwise 
directionless murk of endless Chaos. It was by using the 
Astronomican that Mankind was able to forge out from 
Terra once more. The Great Crusade, as it came to be 
known, reclaimed far-scattered and long-lost worlds, 
giving birth to the Imperium. For nearly ten millennia, 
the borders of that realm were defined by the reach 
of the Astronomican, the great Light of Terra. 

Navigators could travel in a great radius 
outwards from the Astronomican, 
but there were many blind spots. 
Distant borders, like the Eastern 
Fringe or the Ghoul Stars, were 
beyond the beacon’s reach. Few 
in the Imperium dared venture 
beyond such limitations save for 
some Rogue Traders who used 
conventional space travel to probe 
into the blackness. There were 
also anomalies scattered across the 
galaxy, near which warp travel was 
restricted or prevented all together. 
The most dangerous of these were 
warp rifts, such as the Eye of Terror, 
where a great influx of fell energies 
stirred fierce warp storms that dimmed 
or blotted out the Astronomican. 
Without that signal, the risk of mishap 
or madness, or a fate worse than either, was 
exponentially increased. Shorn of its guidance, 
even the most powerful of Navigators could neither 
pilot a ship nor plot a course for the immense voyages 
required to cross a quarter of the breadth of the 
Imperium. Of course, that was before the Great Rift. 

A chain reaction of tears split across the galaxy, leaving 
behind a pulsing scar of pure Chaos. The Noctis 
Aeterna followed, a period when the Astronomican was 
swallowed, lost within the roiling masses of the storm. 
For some time - days, weeks, years? - only intermittent 
flashes could be seen, as if the Emperor himself was 
doing battle against the storm. For half the galaxy, the 
Astronomican returned, although now prone to blinks 
and stutters. For those in the galactic north - dubbed 
the Imperium Nihilus - the beam of the Astronomican 
was gone, leaving Navigators blind in the warp, and the 
Imperial worlds there lost and isolated in the dark. 




HERESY GROWS FROM IDLENESS. 


NAVIGATORS 

Navigators are a stable breed of human mutant 
whose existence predates the Imperium by many 
thousands of years. Founded during the Age of 
Technology, the Navis Nobilite, or Navigator 
Houses, survived through the Age of Strife to the 
present day, where they currently thrive as a vital 
part of the Imperium. Navigators have unique 
physiques, some of which can be quite extreme, 
but all are marked by a third eye. It is this that 
is the key to their power and value, for it is used 
to see the shifting currents of the warp, enabling 
a Navigator to steer a spacecraft through the 
maelstrom of the immaterium. The mutation is 
neither spontaneous nor natural, but rather the 
result of ancient genetic experimentation and 
engineering. Amongst humans, only Navigators 
can pilot spacecraft through the warp with any 
degree of direction. Although the guidance 
beacons used during the Age of Technology 
have long since been lost, the Astronomican 
provides a steering reference, allowing Navigators 
to pinpoint locations. Without Navigators, or 
their ability to see the Astronomican, all of the 
Imperium would be like the Imperium Nihilus, 
fragmented into thousands of separate stellar 
empires, whose spacecraft would be obliged to 
risk tiny, blind jumps to cover any distance of 
space greater than a few light years. 







xm 


WORLDS OF THE IMPERIDM 


p\ 

? ■ . r* * 

, i». ^ 


Spread across the galaxy are over a million planets claimed in the 
name of the Imperium - a vast number, yet only a tiny proportion 
of the stellar systems in the galaxy. Many disconnected branches of 
the Adeptus Administratum are dedicated to classifying Imperial 
planets, their data contradictory or badly out of date. 



Many worlds were settled by Humanity during the Age of Technology and 
then brought into the Emperors fold during the Great Crusade. As warp 
storms shift, lost worlds continue to be recovered, but the exact number of 
worlds within the Imperium is not precisely known. Given the immense 
distances, poor cortimunications, and the volatile nature of the galaxy itselh, 
any attempt at a census would be obsolete befor'e it was finished. To ease the 
difficulties of governing such a sprawling empire, the Imperium is divided 
into five segmentums, which in turn are broken down into numerous sectors 
and sub-sectors. Some Imperial worlds are clustered around relatively stable 
warp translation points, often branching out from key hub planets to form 
tightly knit alliances of trade and mutual protection, such as the Realm 
of Ultramar or the systems surrounding Terra. The majority of inhabited 
worlds, however, are separated by immense voids. Isolation and varied 
environments ensure a wide range of cultures and levels of technological 
advancement, but so long as the Imperial Tithe i£ paid - a charge on 
manpower, manufacturing and psykers levieS upon every colonised planet 
- worlds are largely left to self-govern. Over the ages, all manner of planets 
have been colonised - cold, airless rocks, sweltering lush worlds and nearly 
everything between. During the Age of Technology, colonies were even 
founded upon hitherto uninhabitable orbs, such as gaseous giants where 
settlements were anchored above endless storms. While the secrets to 
taming such inhospitable environments have been lost, many worlds still 
cling to existence thanks to ancient machinery. The following are examples 
of just a few of the many thousands of different planet classifications. 


EXTERMINATUS 


The order for Exterminatus is a death knell for a world. It calls for 
the complete eradication of all life on a planet. Such a command can 
only come from the highest ranks of the Imperium - a Space Marine 
Chapter Master, Lord High Admiral of the Imperial Navy, Lord 
Commander of the Astra Militarum, or an Inquisitor. The orders 
unleashing such destruction are only issued when no other solution 
or redemption can be seen. It has been used to combat planetwide 
heresy, rampant, uncontrollable mutation or disease, to prevent the 
opening or widening of warp rifts, or when xenos are so entrenched 
that the resources (population included) are beyond salvation. The 
methods of delivering this ultimate sanction vary, but all are equally 
uncompromising. The Adeptus Astartes tend towards delivering 
an Exterminatus device to the planet’s surface, using a carefully 
selected kill team to ensure absolute death. By contrast, the Imperial 
Navy prefers sustained bombardment, using battleships to hammer 
the world until it collapses in on itself. The grim corvettes of the 
Inquisition favour cyclonic torpedoes and atmospheric incinerators. 




CIVILISED WORLDS 


f|-class [HIVE WORLDS] 

Hive cities are huge urban 
conglomerations which can 
stretch across continents 
and reach miles into the sky. 
Typically, their host worlds 
consist of many individual 
hives divided by areas of 
polluted waste or toxic seas. 
Hive world populations are 
immense, but if anarchy is 
properly suppressed, they can 
be a rich source of troops for 
the Imperial Guard. 


[Ll-class [FEUDAL WORLDS] 

Many rediscovered worlds 
are found to have regressed 
to a societal state described 
in ancient Terran lore as 
‘medieval’. Some of these 
worlds, such as those 
referred to as Knight worlds, 
maintain some technological 
advancements in the form of 
revered pieces of archeotech. 


4>\ -class [FERAL WORLDS] 
Feral worlds contain long- 
isolated populations that have 
declined into savagery. The 
crudest of such societies have 
regressed beyond the point of 
using even stone tools, while 
others might be on the cusp of 
entering an iron age. Whether 
due to post-apocalyptic, 
environmental, or other 
factors, such planets pay the 
lowest tithe grade. 


v SB 1 









A HERETIC’S DEATH SERVES THE EMPEROR. 

•V- v 






* n 






\ 


rw 


^-class [FORGE WORLDS] 

Forge worlds are the domain 
of the Adeptus Mechanicus, 
planets dedicated to heavy 
industry and the superstitious 
religion of science known as 
the Cult Mechanicus. The first 
and greatest of the forge worlds 
is Mars, and the Fabricator 
General still resides there. 

All forge worlds are wreathed 
in pollution, the by-product 
of unceasing industry where 
continent-sized machines 
work to churn out weapons for 
the Imperium’s endless armies. 



p-class [RESEARCH 

STATIONS/FORTRESS 

WORLDS] 

In bureaucratic fashion, the 
classification of research 
station and fortress world 
overlaps. Some are planets 
given over to massively 
garrisoned continent-wide 
bunker complexes protected by 
orbital guns; others might not 
be worlds at all, but asteroid 
bases that serve as surveillance 
posts or defensive strongholds 
to safeguard shipping or watch 


likely xenos invasion routes. 



a-class [AGRI WORLDS] 

As many planets in the 
Imperium - especially those 
classified as hive or forge 
worlds - cannot produce 
enough food of their own, 
other worlds are wholly given 
over to the production of 
agricultural products. Many 
branches of the Adeptus 
Administratum ensure that 
such agri worlds are run to 
produce the maximum volume 
of foodstuff. It matters not how 
many are worked to death so 
long as hourly quotas are met. 



[CHAPTER PLANETS] 

A Chapter Planet serves as the 
headquarters of an Adeptus 
Astartes Chapter. This 
classification, which is exempt 
from normal Imperial Tithes, 
supersedes all others, as a 
Space Marine Chapter may 
claim a death or feral planet, 
or might not take a world at 
all, instead inhabiting a space 
station, deserted moon or 
asteroid. The Chapter Master 
rules the planet and they 
frequently draw recruits from 
the local population. 


-■ggfrf - 


lO-class [MINING WORLDS] 

Planets classified as mining 
worlds are rich in materials 
coveted by manufactorums 
and forge worlds. Workers 
- whether enslaved or 
penal - harvest ore, rock, 
promethium, gas clouds or 
any desired minerals. Many 
resources are found on barren 
or inhospitable worlds, such as 
the lava oceans of Trollix, or 
the electro-clouds of Zeutus. 
The Imperium does not value 
its miners, only the materials 
they extract and refine. 



Sr-class [DEATH WORLDS] 

Death worlds are planets 
deemed too dangerous to 
support conventional human 
settlements. One of the best 
known of all death worlds is 
Catachan, a planet infamous 
for its vast jungles and myriad 
forms of ferocious carnivorous 
life - both flora and fauna. 
Despite their name, many 
death worlds support some 
measure of hard-fought human 
life, and those that survive 
make excellent recruits for the 
armies of the Imperium. 





m 








What horrors slumber amidst the stars, awaiting only the careless tread of Humankind to awaken them to wrath? What lurking terrors ply the 
darkened void, gazing with avaricious eyes upon the fragile lights of Imperial worlds? None can say, save perhaps the Emperor Himself, and His 
silence is eternal. 














ONLY IN DEATH DOES DUTY END 


S> 


The Imperium is not composed of planets and star 
systems alone. Defensive emplacements and man¬ 
made stations surround inhabited systems, guarding 
against encroaching xenos. In deep space, the Imperium 
maintains numerous battle stations - planet-sized 
ports that tether ships of the line - while at various 
strategic points in each segmentum are larger starforts, 
lynchpins of Imperial expansion since the days of the 
Great Crusade. Most often, these bases are stationed 
in close proximity to Imperial planets, although 
some protect trade routes or form blockades around 
notoriously perilous systems. There are artificial 
moons and doomsday bastions, as well as hazard 
zones made of asteroids chained together and kept 
in place by occasional thruster bursts. Even further 
into the wilderness of the void drift arrays of listening 
probes. Great exploratory fleets plumb the dark depths 
seeking to stake claims for the Imperium. Even in the 
most remote of places, mining stations can be found, 
sometimes bolted onto asteroids to strip precious 
metals, or as space-faring rigs designed to siphon 
mineral-rich nebulas. Feeding the war industry of the 
Imperium demands endless supplies. 


The isolation of space, however, offers no safety from 
the hazards of war. As the Imperiunfs planets have been 
besieged, so too have their interstellar holdings. Battle 
stations have been boarded, no matter the calibre of 
their guns, and hidden watch posts have been raided. 
Many ships in the midst of journeys have found that 
space is an unforgiving environment. Malfunctions, 
mutiny, pirate raids, and mishap leave many ships 
dead and adrift. For ships that utilise warp space, 
the risks are multiplied a hundredfold. The vastness 
of space and the perils of the warp ensure few such 
wrecks are ever salvaged. These lifeless vessels float 
aimlessly, a sea of derelicts moved by eddies until they 
are swallowed by further warp storms. Those colossal 
tempests crush groups of such wrecks together, and 
the resultant mangle of ships, space stations, asteroids 
and detritus form monolithic ghost ships known in 
the Imperium as space hulks. Some space hulks are 
only a few ships compacted together, while others are 
massive agglomerations larger than many moons. Space 
hulks wander unpredictable currents, periodically 
dropping out of the warp and then winking away 
once more. During the Noctis Aeterna, also known 
as the Blackness, entire dead fleets were vomited into 
realspace, thousands of battles’ worth of ship graveyards 
arriving at once. Amongst the derelicts were spacecraft 
recently destroyed and relics dating back to the Age 
of Technology. Others contained holds full of xenos 
mechanisms from lost civilisations, and many of the 
space hulks had become lairs for monstrous passengers. 


WARP STORMS AND 
THE NOCTIS AETERNA 

Nothing is more volatile than the warp. When those 
unnatural energies escape the immaterium into 
realspace, they roar across the galaxy, often with 
catastrophic effect. Throughout the centuries since 
Mankind’s return to the stars, countless ships have 
been swallowed up by warp storms, never to return. 

Such storms were known to isolate entire sub-sectors, 
blocking travel and communication into and out of the 
region and shutting out the beam of the Astronomican. 
While the Age of the Imperium has seen many warp 
storms, none compared to those that raged during the 
time of the Blackness. 

As the Cicatrix Maledictum cracked the galaxy, all of 
the Imperium was shorn of the Emperor’s Light. Ships 
in transit were subjected to the full fury of immense 
storms, and entire fleets were buffeted off course, leaving 
crippled vessels scattered across the galaxy. They were 
the lucky ones. Others were torn asunder or breached 
by Daemons. Battleships were tugged out of moorings 
while defence stations were snatched into the warp to 
reappear on the other side of the galaxy, their crews 
of many millions gone. Even planets were wrenched 
out of their orbits and time itself was halted across 
swathes of space. Such storms lasted days, months, 
years or even centuries, depending on the location. 
Shock waves of warp energies flooded out from the 
Great Rift, appearing as multihued nebulas or writhing 
monstrosities. No instruments known to the Imperium 
could track the tempests, and ships attempting to avoid 
their courses found the storms following them. 

Isolated, planets sent warnings and pleas for help, 
but no communications could pass through those 
storms. Astropaths attempting to send messages died 
horrible deaths, their last spasms attracting Daemons. 
Strange things moved in the inky void. The blackness 
itself seemed to slither. Nameless creatures hunted the 
starfields and the Daemon legions came, for panic and 
desperation drew them like predators to a blood trail. 
And behind them emerged the sworn enemies of the 
Imperium - Traitor Legions and Chaos Renegades. The 
worst terrors of ten thousand years strode the galaxy 
once more, as legendary Greater Daemons and Daemon 
Primarchs came forth, wreaking vengeful retribution 
before disappearing back into the maelstrom. Full- 
fledged wars tore down bastion planets whose names 
echoed across the Imperium. So fell Sabatine, the 
Chapter Planet of the White Consuls Space Marines, 
and Dhorthan, prime hive world of the Dhorthian 
System. A great feasting on the rotted corpse of the 
Imperium had begun. 


IN THE DEPTHS DF SPACE 















THE ECGLESIARGHY 


Necessity and fear alone cannot bind a million planets 
together, and from the earliest days of the Imperium, 
many tried to unite Mankind through faith. From a 
small cult full of zealous disciples, the Ecclesiarchy grew 
to provide the state religion for the whole Imperium. A 
force unto itself, the Ecclesiarchy has spread into nearly 
every facet of Imperial life. 

As the Emperor led Humanity back to the stars, he 
was venerated as a leader and visionary. On the most 
regressive planets rediscovered during the Great 
Crusade, many primitive peoples considered the 
Emperor to be a living god - a saviour who came from 
the skies. After his battle with Horns and subsequent 
incarceration atop the Golden Throne, the Emperor was 
openly worshipped even on so-called civilised planets. 
The culmination of the civil war known as the Horus 
Heresy not only robbed Mankind of the Emperors 
physical guidance, it brought other changes as well. In 
addition to the devastation of a brutal war, there was a 
new fear of traitors within Humanity’s midst. Suddenly, 
the bright light that the leader of Mankind had worked 
so hard to rekindle was replaced with suspicion and 
dread. The far-flung empire felt vulnerable, and into that 
vacuum came a new reassurance - that of faith. 


Following the Horus Heresy, many cults dedicated to 
worship of the Emperor appeared. These sects differed 
in practice, interpreting the now-silent Emperor’s will 
in myriad ways, but all were united by their deification 
of the Emperor and the proliferation of the principles of 
human survival that he had instigated in the creation of 
the Imperium. Concerning mutants, psykers and aliens, 
anything that stood in the way of Humanity’s future 
was to be destroyed without mercy. As the campaign 
known as the Scouring swept back over the human- 
controlled parts of the galaxy, these new sects followed 
closely behind. Within a few hundred years of the 
Emperor’s sacrifice, the multitude of smaller cults had 
been absorbed into the largest sects, the most powerful 
of which was known as the Ecclesiarchy, after its elected 
leader, the Ecclesiarch. This aggressive body grew so 
dominant that, early in the 32nd Millennium, it gained 
the status of official religion of the Imperium and the 
concomitant title of Adeptus Ministorum. 

THE OFFICIAL FOUNDING 

The first official step of the Adeptus Ministorum was to 
tighten control, persecuting any remaining cults that 
refused to amalgamate beneath its banner. Those who 



4 *. ' A 


With sharpened blades and thundering guns, with disciplined warriors and cold-eyed killers, you may conquer 
a city, a world, perhaps an entire system. Yet with faith you may conquer the galaxy itself. 


THERE IS NO COWARDICE IN FAITH. 









M Wr 


1 


a © 


o 



MMfl 




refused were declared unbelievers and the population 
was stirred to violence against them. The might of 
the Ecclesiarchy was such that it could call for Wars 
of Faith - military campaigns capable of overturning 
planets or whole systems. Often this was done to further 
the Imperium’s goals, ridding it of heretics, seditious 
unbelievers or alien subversion, but history is equally 
replete with examples of the Ecclesiarchy instigating 
bloody wars for its own gain, securing enough wealth 
through falsely declared crusades to build the first of the 
shrine worlds. Lavish cathedrals, massive statues and 
monolithic triumphal arches heaped praise upon the 
Emperor but, more importantly to many, those pivotal 
hub planets granted vast political sway and were often 
rich in mineral resources. The Ecclesiarchy’s influence 
spread, and few dared to question its motives. By the 
end of the 33rd Millennium there was practically no 
open worship in the Imperium save for that condoned 
by the Adeptus Ministorum. The only exceptions were 
the domains of the Adeptus Astartes and the Adeptus 
Mechanicus, who were begrudgingly allowed to keep 
their unique traditions. In the long ages since, this has 
led to distrust, and occasionally even open war, between 
the differing parties. 


THE HOLY MISSION 

The servants of the Ecclesiarchy are fanatical in their 
quest to spread their religion. Given the size of the 


THERE IS NO FEAR IN CONVICTION. 

' f w 

■ * 1 • .. ^ ... 


galaxy, the random nature of warp storm isolation and 
the widely varied levels of cultural and technological 
advancement within the Imperium, the Adeptus 
Ministorum has found many belief systems already 
established on planets they visited for the first time. 

This was not an impediment, for the Ecclesiarchy had 
become adept at assimilating all manner of creeds 
into the Cult Imperialis - the worship of the Emperor. 
This might mean erecting great cathedrals to impress 
hardened hive-dwellers, or teaching the hunting tribes 
on feral worlds that the sun god they worshipped was 
in fact the glorious light of the Emperor. The nuance of 
how the people bowed before the Master of Mankind 
was not as important as the act itself. For many 
centuries the Ecclesiarchy was content to play the long 
game. Their strategy, over time, reined in the more 
barbaric customs and gradually they usurped complete 
religious control. Any local religions that resisted were 
ruled heretical and actively crushed by political or 
military means, whichever proved the most prudent. 

As the Age of the Imperium grew darker, the fervour of 
faith became ever louder. To the superstitious masses, 
the hellfire that cracked the stars and the plethora of 
warp-fuelled phenomenon were clear signs of the Time 
of Ending. In desperation, vast populations isolated 
and besieged by nightmare creatures called upon their 
Emperor to protect them. For most, the only answer was 
more carnage rained down from the stars. 












There are those amongst Humanity who cry out for hope, for freedom and an escape from duty and toil. Decry such traitors! There can be no hope in 
times such as these, save that which the Emperor offers. There can be no freedom, save that which the Emperor grants. There can be no cessation of 
toil, save that which death bestows, and even that final gift is the Emperor’s to give - as He will. 


mWmm ws \ m 


1 V A V 


1: IHp r Vv- 

ifK 1 HL 

* \ , ! 

rki 1 

. r - • 
















Every day of the Age of the Imperium, the vast 
armadas of the League of Black Ships have plied the 
void, racing to collect their precious cargo across 
the galaxy before rushing homeward to Terra, their 
holds crammed full of frightened psykers. Even with 
psychic dampeners, such journeys are fraught with 
danger. The threats are constant, as warp travel can 
unhinge unwary minds, sometimes causing psykers 
to release untold horrors. An untrained psykers 
only chance of surviving the threats of the warp is to 
go unnoticed by the powers that stalk there. Without 
the discipline taught by the Adeptus Astra Telepathica 
and its Scholastia Psykana, a psyker has no chance of 
defending themselves against a hungry warp presence. 
Many psykers are innocent of any malign intentions 
and the implications of their abilities, although this 
makes them no less dangerous. Others, far fewer in 
number, are aware of what hunts them and actively 
court the dreadful attention of warp entities, tempting a 
terrible fate for morsels of knowledge or power. When 
discovered, such tainted psykers are quickly eliminated. 


LIFE IS A PRISON, DEATH A RELEASE. 


r 






firaS 


Since the prolific warp storms of the Age of Strife, 
the rate at which humans develop psychic powers has 
steadily increased. Psychic minds appear as bright 
flames in the immaterium, ripe sweetmeats for the 
pandemonium of planeshifters, Enslavers, and Daemons 
that dwell there. Recognising the substantial risk for 
daemonic possession and the spread of Chaos, the 
Emperor of Mankind attempted to control the growing 
epidemic. By his decree, the use of psychic powers was 
banned save for those sanctioned by the Imperium 
itself. The ruler of every Imperial planet was to set aside 
a levy of young psykers for transport to Terra aboard 
the Black Ships. 


sanctioned psyker, one in a hundred million may be 
mind-scrubbed and sent to a Space Marine Chapter to 
be reborn as a Librarian, and one in a billion may be 
worthy of serving as an Inquisitor or other high-status 
official. Since the eruption of the Great Rift, the supply 
chain of the Black Ships has been severely interrupted. 
Planets cut off from their Imperial Tithe are forced to 
implement their own restraints upon their populations 
of untrained psykers. 


Many psykers die en route to Terra, but those who 
survive are rigorously tested to work out their best use. 
Upon reaching the Imperial home world, the psykers 
are sorted, graded and assigned to various duties. The 
vast majority are sent to the Astronomican to serve 
the great beacon - their lives are short, painful and 
culminate in an agonising death. A goodly number 
are deemed too unstable even for that duty. Most of 
these are lobotomised, becoming mindless servitors, 
but a few are spirited away to the Obsidian Keep in the 
heart of the Astra Telepathica palace complex where 
an unknown fate awaits them. A very few are deemed 
fit for more active service. Of these, the main part are 
sent to the Imperial Palace to undergo the Soul Binding 
ritual. More die there, but the maimed survivors are 
inducted into the ranks of the Astropaths. Others are 
sent to various departments - one in ten million may 
be mind-scrubbed and sent to serve the military as a 


* > i- A 


A DEADLY EVDLUTIDN 












‘We endure an age 
of darkness, it is true, 
but still we shall be the 
lucky ones who do not 
live to see its end/ 


- General Valtor, 
IV Drovian Dragoons 


ABES OF MANKIND 


Knowledge of the long ages of human 
history has been wreathed in shadow, 
buried beneath the aeons or simply 
lost over the expanse of time. Some 
Historitors continue to seek knowledge, 
but their work can be compared to 
holding a candle against the dark abyss. 

The Historitors of the Adeptus 
Administratum seek, gather and dutifully 
collect the history of each planet within 
the Imperium. Once, perhaps, this was 
done with purpose. Now, however, it is 
most often an indiscriminate compilation 
of data, a process where scribes 
unthinkingly copy content onto scrolls, 
preserving complete records in constant 
fear of missing a single inconsequential 
letter. The ability, or even desire, to 
translate what these facts mean in any 
larger sense is almost entirely absent, 
found only in a few individuals who are 
eyed suspiciously, or perhaps punished 
for their enthusiasm. 

The largest and most complete collection 
of such records exists beneath the 
surface of Terra, where the colossal 
under-halls stretch out of sight - endless 
vistas of datascrolls tower upwards like 
mountains. With flickering candlelight 
provided by floating servo-skulls, 
processions of curators, scriveners, 
and ciphers wind through the valleys, 
attempting to illuminate that which was. 
Over the years, old truths have been 
lost to the adjustments and redactions 
made by revisionists of the Adeptus 
Ministorum, the Inquisition and even the 
High Lords of Terra themselves. 

AGE OF TERRA: M1-M15 

Little is known of this period save that, 
during this time, Mankind made its 
first forays from Terra into space. Mars 
became the first planet to be terraformed 
when it was settled by industrial cartels. 
The red planet soon became synonymous 
with technical expertise and scientific 
advancement. Colonies had to be self- 
sufficient, as many were isolated from 
Terra by long, dangerous journeys. 


AGE OF TECHNOLOGY: 
M15-M25 

This era is referred to as the ‘Dark Age 
of Technology’ so often that its original 
title might seem incomplete. There 
are few reliable records dating back 
to this epoch and even they seem to 
contradict themselves with regularity. 
What is known is that from roughly M18 
onwards, Mankind discovered the warp 
and how to enter it. Slowly, through many 
disasters, Humanity learned to use the 
warp to make faster-than-light journeys 
out of their own star system. It was 
during this time that the first alien races 
were encountered. 

Soon after, Mankind embarked upon the 
discovery, development and cultivation of 
the human Navigator gene, a controlled 
mutation that allowed human pilots to 
make longer warp jumps than previously 
thought possible. Navigator families, 
initially controlled by industrial and trade 
cartels, had become individual forces 
in their own right by Ml9. By M20, 
Humanity had proliferated and settled 
many of the countless star systems. It was 
a golden age for scientific achievement; 
technology provided all the answers. 
Thinking machines aided civilian and 
military production, allowing enormous 
labours to be accomplished at a frenetic 
pace. Perfection of the Standard Template 
Construct (STC) system permitted an 
explosion of colonisation that reached the 
furthest limits of the galaxy. This was the 
zenith of technological development and 
knowledge-sharing, for even the most 
far-flung colony had access to the entire 
inventory of human invention. 

For the rest of the age, Mankind spread 
across the stars, becoming widely 
dispersed and divergent. Evidence exists 
of many wars, but none that threatened 
the stability of human space. Amongst 
the records are lists of xenos enemies 
that have long since gone extinct, along 
with more familiar names such as Aeldari 
and Orks. During this time period, 
interplanetary trade was established and 
great fleets carried goods to and from 



THOUGHT FOR THE DAY: IT IS BETTER FOR A MAN TO BE AFRAID THAN HAPPY. 

















the ends of the galaxy. As planets became 
overpopulated, the recently invented 
construction mediums of plasteel, 
plascrete, ferrocrete and rockcrete were 
used to build colossal cities, which 
became the proto-hives. 

As quick as the expansion of Mankind’s 
domain had been, it was eclipsed by the 
speed of its collapse. The decline was so 
rapid and so nearly complete that little of 
those colonies, or the civilisations they 
spawned, remain. Speculation is rampant, 
but there are few facts. What is known is 
that human psykers were first mentioned 
towards the end of M22, making a 
sudden appearance on almost every 
human world within a relatively short 
span of time. By the end of M23, there 
was widespread anarchy, descriptions 
of what must be daemonic possessions 
and great turbulence in the warp. Some 
records also cite betrayal by the machines 
and a great war with robotic armies. 
Whether factual or allegorical, the 
histories leave no doubt on one point: the 
golden age had come to a spectacularly 
swift and brutal end. 



AGE OF STRIFE: M25-M30 

Marked by terrible wars and massive 
invasions that tore Humanity apart, this 
age was a time of collapse. Warp storms of 
unprecedented ferocity isolated Mankind’s 
colonies. The great distances prevented 
almost all contact between colonised 
planets, and those who were close enough 
to remain in communication often became 
embroiled in internal battles for control. 

The separated human cultures rapidly 
diversified. Humanity itself began 
to evolve, with mutations regularly 
appearing on most planets and, on some 






3 


I 1 


.4 


worlds, altering into something new 
altogether: the first of the abhuman 
races. Civilisations that persecuted the 
recently developed psykers fared the 
best. Worlds where such abilities were 
encouraged seem to have been destroyed 
altogether. Some of the wonders of the 
Age of Technology were lost or destroyed 
in the flames of conflict while others fell 
into neglect. Mankind was brought to its 
knees, and this horrific state continued 
for nearly six millennia. 


When it finally emerged from the long 
darkness, Humanity was forever altered. 
Science was no longer the answer, but 
instead something to be feared. As 
legends tell, late in the Age of Strife, a 
force slowly reconciled the old grudges 
held between the warring factions of 
Terra and Mars, and the long campaign 
later called the Unification Wars was 
ended. This new leader was known only 
as the Emperor, and even as he prepared 
to reclaim the wider galaxy, a final mighty 
surge of the Age of Strife’s warp storms 
lit up the skies. This phenomenon was 
so large that the event was recorded by 
planets all across the galaxy. When the 
scintillating burst died down, it left the 
warp somewhat becalmed and the galaxy 
scarred by what would later be known as 
the Eye of Terror. 


With the sudden quelling of the warp 
storms that had raged unabated, the 
Emperor and his newly formed Legions 
of Space Marines turned their attention 
to the stars, beginning the Great Crusade. 
Using the psychic beam of the newly 
created Astronomican, Navigators could 
plot courses through the warp to cover 
vast distances of realspace quickly. So 
did the Great Crusade advance outwards 
in many directions at once, driving back 
xenos and creatures of the warp alike. 
Over hundreds of battles, the Emperor 
reclaimed many of the earlier colonies, 
and was reunited with the lost Primarchs 
- his superhuman creations whose gene- 
seed had been used to make the Space 
Marine Legions. The Primarchs had been 
stolen from the Emperor, whisked away 
by the Dark Gods while still in their 
gestation pods. The Emperor’s crusade 
brought an end to the dismal despair and 
loss of the Age of Strife and began a new 
period of human history. 


‘DIVEST YOURSELF OF 
MERCY, FOR MERCY 
IS A WEAKNESS. 
DIVEST YOURSELF OF 
COMPASSION, FOR 
COMPASSION IS A 
WEAKNESS. DIVEST 
YOURSELF OF HOPE, FOR 
HOPE IS A WEAKNESS. 

WHEN NOTHING 
REMAINS WITHIN BUT 
HATE, AND THE PURITY 
OF YOUR PURPOSE, THEN 
YOU WILL BE STRONG.’ 

- Sergeant Golgaar, 
Iron Hands Clan 
Company Raukaan 




















V 


. p 

P * 
- ' * 


fix 


ii 


i 

ty 

w- 

3 



■El 

p- 


* 

G 


I" ji 1 H I i 11 l IliH II 


a&rnitimmsmmm 


AGE DF DARKNESS 


A new era had begun, but the bright new dawn for Mankind envisioned by the Emperor was not to be. 

The fledgling Imperium was instead torn asunder by the great betrayal of the Horus Heresy. Human pride 
and ambition opened the door for the treacheries of the Dark Gods. So did an age of enlightenment grow 
dark, as Humanity was forced to barter reason for superstition, and hope for survival. 


The Great Crusade was spearheaded by the newly 
formed Space Marine Legions, who were armed by 
the recently allied factories of Mars. Supported by the 
new Imperial Army, the forces of the Emperor proved 
unstoppable. Xenos and warp creatures were driven 
back, and planet after planet was reclaimed in the name 
of Humanity. Further and further the campaigns pushed 
outwards from Terra. One by one, the twenty missing 
Primarchs were found and added back into the fold. 

During the Great Crusade, the Emperor preached 
three great truths in his reconquest of the galaxy: 
genetic corruption must be sought out and eradicated; 
psykers were to be uncovered, kept controlled, and 
handed over to Imperial agents for evaluation, and 
destructive xenos were to be rendered powerless. With 
triumph on all battlefronts, the Imperium of Mankind 
was re-established as the largest single empire in the 
galaxy. Deciding it was time for the next phase of 


enlightenment, the Emperor handed control of the new 
Space Marine Legions over to his sons, the Primarchs, 
while he returned to Terra. In the Emperors stead, 
Horus, Primarch of the Luna Wolves (later renamed the 
Sons of Horus), was named first amongst equals, and 
given the title Warmaster. 

THE GREAT BETRAYAL 

In the dawn of this expansive new era of Mankind, 
great sacrifice was demanded. Turning his back on the 
teachings of the Emperor, it was the Warmaster, Horus, 
the Emperors most trusted and gifted commander, who 
committed the ultimate betrayal. Embracing the will of 
the Dark Gods and infused by their ruinous powers, the 
traitor Horus led a rebellion that set the galaxy aflame 
with bitter civil war. A full third of the Imperium’s 
military forces joined Horus, including half of the 
Space Marine Legions. So it was that brother fought 











o 


o 


j I *»nil I Ml 


O o _ 


against brother, creating myths and grudges that still 
echo throughout the galaxy. On both sides there strode 
warriors out of legend, and the very planets cracked 
apart beneath their titanic struggles. 

Seeking to slay the Emperor, the traitors carved their 
bloody way to Terra itself, invading the Emperors 
Palace, howling their rage in an orgy of slaughter and 
war. Yet finally, heroically, the tables were turned and, 
at last, Horns was struck down - but not before he 
dealt the Emperor a mortal blow. The shattered body of 
Mankind’s leader remained intact, however, held strong 
by his indomitable spirit until it could be interred within 
the recently forged machinery of the Golden Throne. 
There, deep within the Imperial Palace, towering banks 
of arcane technology sustained the Emperor’s spirit 
so that it could continue to watch over Humanity. 
Although his withered form was bound, the Emperor’s 
psychic powers were unfettered; he was still the Master 
of Mankind and custodian of the human race. 


VICTORY’S HEAVY TOLL 

The Emperor’s survival is paramount to the survival of 
the Imperium, because only the mind of the Emperor 
is powerful enough to survive the never-ending process 
of directing the psychic beacon of the Astronomican 
out of the raw psychic forces supplied by the servants 
of the Adeptus Astronomica. The same survivability 
does not hold true for those members of the Adeptus 
Astronomica themselves, and their fate is a tragic one. 
The effort of generating so much mental energy soon 
destroys them, leeching their souls and reducing them 
to empty husks. Many die every day, but they are not 
the only psykers who make the ultimate sacrifice. The 
Emperor cannot eat as men eat, or drink or breathe air, 
as his life has long since passed the point where such 
things could sustain him. The only viable sustenance for 
the Emperor is human life force - souls - and he has an 
insatiable appetite. 

Not just any human will suffice for the Emperor’s 
table, for they must have psychic powers. Therefore, 
the Imperium is scoured by the vast flotillas of the 
Black Ships in a tireless search for emergent psykers. 
During their long journey back to Terra, some of the 
psykers are found to have the strength of mind to be 
recruited to the Adeptus Astronomica, but many more 
serve their Emperor in a more gruesome way. They are 
given wholly to the weird machinery that surrounds 
the Master of Mankind, and their souls are siphoned, 
slowly and agonisingly, to feed his mighty spirit. Many 
hundreds, even thousands, must die in this way every 
day for the Emperor, the Imperium, and all of Humanity 
to survive. 

The Emperor’s dream of an age of enlightenment, 
a time when Mankind was freed from superstition 




and ignorance, turned into something far different. 

His Imperium has endured, but only by virtue of an 
oppressive and necessarily harsh rule carried out in his 
name. It became an age of tyrants and of unreason, an 
era of stagnation and intolerance. His people regressed 
into religious obfuscation while the Emperor sat 
immobile, his thoughts unknown - the creature whose 
will extended over a million worlds was unable to lift a 
shrivelled finger. 



REPERCUSSIONS 

The bitter fighting of the Horns Heresy was the 
beginning of a new age founded in blood. After the 
death of Horns, the traitors splintered, but many hard 
wars remained. The time of the Scouring demanded 
countless victories before the fledgling Imperium was 
wrested back from the brink of destruction. In the 
midst of the turmoil, the hierarchy of the Imperium 
underwent fundamental alterations, morphing from the 
direct rule of the Emperor to a realm ruled by a council 
in his name. Suspicion fuelled many changes, as it was 
uncovered that far more planets than first thought had 
been lulled into treacheries of one form or another. The 
roots of these betrayals ran deep and were hard to flush 
into the light. Distrust and paranoia were rampant and a 
new era of fear and mistrust began. 

Changes swept the military and government offices. 

The Legiones Astartes, the vast fighting formations 
so instrumental in Mankind’s victories during the 
Great Crusade, were broken down into many smaller 
Chapters. Overseen by Roboute Guilliman, the 
Primarch of the Ultramarines Legion, this transition 
allowed for greater tactical flexibility without placing 
the command of an entire Space Marine Legion into 
the hands of one individual - never again would the 
awesome power of one hundred thousand Space 
Marines be misused. 

Another change redefined the Imperial Army. Once 
including both the great battleships that plied the stars 
and the countless soldiers that landed to fight planet- 
side, now the two were divided into the Imperial Fleet 
and the Astra Militarum. Across all the agencies of 
the Imperium, offices and institutions were split, their 
previous responsibilities fractionalised. Many branches 
of the Adeptus Administratum were spawned at this 
time. It was not unusual for two separate organisations, 
each unaware of the other, to be tasked with the same 
jobs. These byzantine systems were fail-safe measures 
that have since spiralled out of control. Beyond such 
bureaucracies, standing watch over all, was the newly 
formed Inquisition, a secretive organisation outside the 
established hierarchies. Ever vigilant, their role was to 
question everything in their constant search for threats 
to Humanity. None save the Emperor himself could 
escape their uncompromising and watchful gaze. 



ONE MAN IS NOT AN ARMY BUT AN ARMY MUST ACT WITH ONE PURPOSE. 










V 






IMPERIUM 


Following the Horns Heresy, Mankind 
became hidebound within the 
organisations and institutions of the 
Imperial administration. The Emperor, 
having reached the end of his natural life, 
existed only by the artificial means of the 
Golden Throne and continual human 
sacrifice. Psykers continued to emerge in 
ever growing numbers and were barely 
controlled through constant suppression 
and vigilance. There is only war and 
constant battle, and the menace from the 
warp looms ever larger. 


XENOS RISING: M32 

With so much strength siphoned off 
by the countless battles of the previous 
millennium, the Imperium was ill- 
equipped to deal with the growing threat 
from the myriad xenos races, which 
became ever bolder and more predatory, 
closing in on all sides. Even star systems 
once thought impregnable were besieged. 
Tragedy heaped upon tragedy as Roboute 
Guilliman, Primarch of the Ultramarines 
and Lord High Commander of the 
Imperium, was mortally wounded by the 
Daemon Primarch Fulgrim. 


THE SCOURING: M31 

The entire millennium was marked by 
the sprawling campaign of vengeance 
fought against the heretic traitors still 
found across the galaxy. Loyalist forces, 
led mostly by the Ultramarines and 
Space Wolves, drove back the traitors 
who survived Homs’ fall. A great 
number were purged, but the foes were 
many, and included thousands of fallen 
regiments, star fleets of the Imperial 
Army, whole Titan Legions and the Dark 
Mechanicum, in addition to the Traitor 
Legions themselves. The core of the 
corrupted Space Marines fell back and 
found refuge within the swirling chaos 
of the Eye of Terror. They were declared 
Excommunicate Traitoris, and all records 
and memory of the Traitor Legions were 
to be expunged from Imperial archives. 


THE FORGING: M32-34 

During this golden age of the Imperium, 
the Adeptus Terra began to bind its 
most important star systems under ever 
tighter control. Astropath choirs were 
set in relay positions across the galaxy, 
with major hubs on the best-garrisoned 
worlds, such as Armageddon, Bakka and 
Macragge. The Imperial Cult became 
the official religion, and the Ecclesiarchy 
added more measures of control over the 
masses. Without the Emperor’s guidance, 
the best direction for the Imperium was 
left to interpretation. To avoid prolonged 
dissension, strict rules were put in place. 
Fear ruled the highest levels of authority, 
while ignorance dominated the lower 
menials. The Imperium’s reign became 
ever more harsh and uncompromising. 


PERSEVERANCE AND SILENCE ARE THE HIGHEST VIRTUES. 


The Scouring, however, was far from over. 
It was a time of grim realisation for the 
Imperium, as in the war-torn aftermath 
the true scope of the Horns Heresy’s 
betrayals was revealed. A great many 
more planets had been lured into helping 
the traitors than was at first known. Some 
had embraced their corruption, while 
others had been misled or beguiled. 

The search for the disloyal took on epic 
proportions. In the midst of the Scouring 
came the Second Founding and the 
formation of the Adeptus Astartes. It 
was but one of many such precautionary 
moves intended to prevent so great a 
betrayal happening again. Henceforth, 
suspicion, guilt and recrimination 
became rife in the Imperium of Man. 


NOVATERRA 
INTERREGNUM: M35-36 

Also known as the Time of the Two 
Emperors, the Ur-council of Nova Terra 
denounced the High Lords of Terra and 
claimed rule of the entire Segmentum 
Pacificus. For nine centuries, the 
Imperium was split in twain in an age 
marked by civil wars for reunification, 
disputes over old trade terms and 
wavering allegiances. Chaos cults were 
discovered behind many, but not all, 
of the uprisings. So prolific was the 
corruption that the 21st Founding of 
Space Marines went horribly wrong, and 
the Grey Knights were called on by the 
Inquisition to expunge the threat. 


ABE DF THE 


. . J*. 









»~ 0 






THE GREAT RIFT: M41 

A galaxy-spanning tear in reality 
known as the Cicatrix Maledictum, the 
Crimson Path, the Mouth of Ruin, the 
Warpscar, the Dathedian, Gork’s Grin 
and a thousand other names besides, was 
ripped open. It brought with it a terrible 
darkness that enveloped the galaxy and 
ushered in a new epoch. 


THE LONG WAR: M31-41 

The great rebellion begun by the arch-heretic Horns has never 
ceased. Every year, decade and century since the Horns Heresy, 
the Long War - the term used by the Traitor Legions to reflect 
their desire to complete what the Warmaster began - has 
continued in every segmentum. The Traitor Legions, along with 
the cults and rebellions they foster, have rapaciously assailed the 
worlds of the Emperor. Thirteen times, Abaddon the Despoiler 
has launched Black Crusades - massive invasions where the oft- 
feuding Chaos powers united in force against their common foe. 
Yet the Long War has never been limited to open combat alone. 
Plagues are propagated, anarchic iconoclasts created, and covert 
cults intertwined into the very fabric of bureaucracy that binds 
the Imperium. 




PRAYER CLEANSES THE SOUL, BUT PAIN CLEANSES THE BODY. 




THE AGE OF 
APOSTASY: M36 

Following the Nova Terra Interregnum, 
a new age of dissent and power struggles 
erupted. It included both the Reign of 
Blood - a struggle between the ruling 
Ecclesiarch and the other High Lords 
of Terra - and the Plague of Unbelief 
- a galaxy-wide uprising of corrupt 
demagogues. Only during the Horns 
Heresy had more blood been shed in 
internal strife. 


THE WANING: M41 

With Imperial armies exhausted by 
the Redemption Crusades, many 
outlying worlds fell to Ork invasions, 
Chaos insurgencies or other xenos 
menaces. To combat the spreading 
anarchy, the Adeptus Terra imposed 
ever stricter rules, doling out ever 
harsher punishments. Portents of doom 
were both incessant and relentless. The 
prescient foretold of great ripples in the 
warp, like a swell in the water disturbed 
by some colossal but unseen menace. 


THE AGE OF 
REDEMPTION: M37-41 

The sins of apostasy were purged in 
blood, including a systematic culling 
commanded by the High Lords of 
Terra. The Imperial Cult spread as 
never before, leading to the burning of 
heretics on hundreds of thousands of 
planets. Uncounted crusades of faith were 
launched, depleting both Imperial Guard 
regiments and Space Marine Chapters. 
Perhaps the most infamous example was 
early in the period, when the judgement 
of Saint Basillius found thirty Space 
Marine Chapters wanting in faith. The 
guilty were given the choice of instant 
death, or embarking on a crusade into the 
Eye of Terror. All chose the latter mission. 

THE MACHARIAN 
CONQUESTS: M41 

Many Imperial Lexographers and 
Historitors consider this to be the last 
of the Redemption Crusades, as well 
as the zenith of their achievement. 

Lord Commander Solar Macharius 
mustered the greatest army the galaxy 
had seen since the Emperor united his 
Primarchs beneath him in the Great 
Crusade. In seven years, Macharius’ 
armies reconquered a thousand worlds 
on the western reaches of the galaxy, and 
his glory carried him into the darkest 
sectors, places where the Emperor’s light 
had never been seen. Upon Macharius’ 
death, the whole Imperium wept. Soon 
afterwards, the vast territories he had 
conquered fell into rivalry and war. 

The Macharian Heresy, as it came to 
be known, lasted for seventy years and 
was only ended through the combined 
efforts of over one hundred Space 
Marine Chapters. 


JR 


TYRANNIC WARS: M41 

The Tyranids entered the galaxy 
and the Tyrannic Wars began. Hive 
Fleet Behemoth destroyed the planet 
of Tyran and the Thandros System 
before being halted at great cost in the 
Realm of Ultramar. Other Hive Fleets 
emerged, including Hive Fleet Kraken 
which ravaged the Aeldari craftworld 
of Iyanden. 














Fight until your blade is blunted, until the last roun< 
battered, until your flesh is bloodied and your bones 
from your body, and nothing but your duty is left to 







C3¥ 


No matter how confused or divergent accounts of this 
time may be, all agree upon one point: upon Macragge, 
within the Fortress of Hera, these unlikely allies 
wrought a miracle. Roboute Guilliman, Primarch of 
the Ultramarines, was reborn. Clad in the raiment of 
war, the Lord of Ultramar drove the heretic hosts from 
his star system and harried them into frantic retreat. 

He then set out upon a desperate pilgrimage, his fleet 
surging through the warp even as the storms that would 
become the Great Rift roiled around them. Through fire 
and fury they battled, Guilliman defeating the mightiest 
champions of each of the four Gods of Chaos and finally 
winning through to Terra. There, he communed alone 
with his father, the Emperor of Mankind, and from that 
meeting the Primarch emerged with grim new purpose. 


THE INQUISITOR IS THE CONSCIENCE OF THE IMPERIUM. 


| 

HDPE REKINDLED 

When the Cicatrix Maledictum roared into being across 
the galaxy, it brought with it a terrible darkness that 
fell like a shroud across much of the Emperors realm. 

Yet even as that unholy gloom was beginning to spread 
from star system to star system, a handful of courageous 
heroes and mighty champions fought to keep the 
light of hope alive. Records of that turbulent period 
are fragmented, riddled with allegory and thrown out 
of order by catastrophic temporal distortion, but it is 
generally accepted that the crux point of fate was Cadia. 

By uniting the disparate factions of the Eye of Terror, 

Abaddon the Despoiler brought ruin to the world that 
had proven his nemesis for millennia. The Imperiurns 
mightiest heroes opposed him - amongst them Belisarius 
Cawl, Saint Celestine and Inquisitor Katarinya Greyfax 
- but though they bled in Cadia’s defence, they too were 
overcome and hounded to the ice-locked world of Klaisus. 

Upon Cadia, Abaddon brought low the mysterious 
geometric pylons that dotted the wind-swept outlands, and 
in doing so weakened the barrier between worlds, for these 
ancient megaliths were fashioned to keep the stuff of Chaos 
from the material dimension. This same act his agents 
repeated on every world that harboured such structures. 

Without these lynchpins to hold the material dimension 
sacrosanct, warp storms tore the galaxy along its length. 

Meanwhile, the civilisation of the Aeldari underwent 
its greatest upheaval in millennia. From amidst the 
ranks of craftworlders and Drukhari alike arose the 
Ynnari, a new faction of grim warriors who followed 
'* their newborn deity, Ynnead, on a radical path that 

they believed would see Chaos defeated and the Aeldari 
race resurgent. Compelled by fate or circumstance, the 
Ynnari lent their aid to Cawl, Celestine and Greyfax in 
their darkest hour, and together, these champions of the 
light forged a path through their foes to Ultramar. 




IMPERIUS DDMINATUS 


Imperial Record GHR 
141556 Map used by 
Roboute Guiltiman in . . 


the latter half of the 
Indomitus Crusade 




S) 




o 


SCARU§ 

SECTOR 


SEGMENTUM 

OBSCURUS 


NAOGEDDON 


DIMMAMAR 


e 




STORM OF THE 
EMPEROR’S WRATH 


FINIAL 

GALIXIS . SECTOR 
SECTOR . *■ _ . 

a. .. ^ 


CYPRA MUNDI 


: GOTHIC 
SECTOR 


' p» m 


% O 


VALHALLA 




^ BAAL 


NECRON 

MEPHRIT DYNASTY 


MUjMtJN 1IM 

SOtAR 


VORDRAST 


MACHARIA 


ULTIMA 

MACHARIA 


. UHULIS 
V SECTOR 




TERRA & MARS 


GATHALAMOR 


NECROMUNDA 


LUTHER MCINTYRE 


dfi NOCTURNE 




SIREN’S STORM 


\ 


HOLY TERRA 

Blessed in his authority, 
here dwells the most beneficent Emperor. 


BANE’S LANDING 


O 


Scholastica 

Psykana Orbital Defence Systems 


SEGMENTUJVt* 

TEMPESTUS • 

• ™ 

• o 


QSESISEEl 


REDUCTUS 
. SECTOR 


O ' M 
NEPiyuM m 
SECTOR • 


o 


ANTAGONIS 


GRYPHONNEIV 


— “ x , v ^° 
O THE VEIL® ^ 




































































mimmiua 


ULTIMA 

SEGMENTUM 


' TEMPORARY S 
glFT CORRIDOR X 


T he vast spread of the galaxy contains an estimated 
four hundred thousand million stars. The total 
number of planets in orbit across all these star 
systems is beyond measure, but approximately one 
million worlds are claimed beneath the dominion of the 
Imperium and ruled by the Emperor of Mankind. 


To govern and protect the galaxy, the High Lords of Terra 
originally divided it into five zones of control known 
as the Segmentae Majoris. These are the Segmentum 
Solar (home of Terra), the Segmentum Obscurus, the 
Ultima Segmentum, the Segmentum Tempestus and the 
Segmentum Pacificus. The Cicatrix Maledictum, or Great 
Rift, necessitated the addition of a further classification: 
the Imperium Nihilus - the portion of the galaxy cut off 
from the guiding light of the Astronomican. 


CHARADON 
SECTOR < 


Each segmentum is further divided into sectors and 
sub-sectors. Although space is three-dimensional, the 
galaxy is largely planar, and so Astrocartographers refer 
to galactic locations using cardinal directions derived 
from those of Holy Terra. Thus, the Eastern Fringe was so 
named as it was far to the galactic east of Terra. 


NEW DREKPORtI 


SISTEC PRIME 


LUNAPHAGE 


QUISTO’ROL 


ANGELIS 


DESPERATION 


NEXUS III 
ASTRO STATION 


ASYLUS 


1SOMNIUM STARS] 


SABLE 


FORMUND 


HEXOS 


KAR DUNIASH 


ATTILA 


VENGEANCE 


CIRILLO PRIME 


THE YMGA MONOLITH 


T’AU 

EMPIRE 


NECRON 

SAUTEKH DYNASTY 


HADEX ANOMALY 


ICHARIV 


1| BLACK REACh| 


PERDUS 


FALSE HOPE 


NECRON 

NIHILAKH 

DYNASTY 


SALEM 













































‘THOSE WHO ARE 
PURE OF HEART AND 
STRONG OF FAITH HAVE 
NOTHING TO FEAR FROM 
THE BLACK TEMPLARS, 
THIS IS TRUE. BUT 
WHO THEN, AMONGST 
THE HEAVING, SINFUL 
MASSES OF HUMANITY, 
CAN TRULY COUNT 
THEMSELVES AS SAFE 
FROM OUR WRATH?’ 


- Marshal Gideon, 
Black Templars, 
Mephistari Crusade 


DARK IMPERIUM 


Such was the turmoil during the creation 
of the Great Rift and the period following 
it that there could be no reliable accounts. 
As limited communications returned, 
Historitors and Chronotechs struggled 
to understand incoming reports. With 
the influx of warp energies, time passed 
strangely, speeding up in some sectors, 
slowing in others. 


THE NOCTIS AETERNA 

As the chain reaction of the Great Rift 
cracked open the galaxy, tidal waves of 
unnatural energies spilled outwards in 
sporadic fashion. Warp storms swept 
across everything - not even the furthest 
reaches of the galaxy were spared their 
corrupting touch. With a great surge, 
over a million planets of the Imperium 
were cut off from the Light of the 
Emperor as the Astronomican went 
out. During that time, the Imperium of 
Mankind ceased to be - each planet was 
isolated, a speck of sanity buffeted by 
a raging tempest. It was a warp storm 
beyond the ability of any technology in 
the Imperium to record - indeed, it was 
greater in size and power than anything 
that had ever been recorded, the most 
powerful of its kind since perhaps the lost 
era of the Age of Strife. 


During the Blackness, as many 
came to know it, all long-ranged 
astrocommunications proved impossible. 
The warp was in far too much upheaval 
to permit travel, and those starships 
in transit at the time were destroyed 
in horrific fashion or subjected to the 
worst battering their crews had ever 
experienced. It is impossible to count all 
those who lost their lives in the turmoil. 
Those who survived found themselves 
carried far off course by the insane tides 
of unnatural energies. 




Riding the crest of the warp storms’ 
shock waves, or following swiftly in 
their wake, came the forces of Chaos. 
The Daemon legions were the vanguard, 
followed hard by the fleets of the Traitor 
Legions and the ragged masses of the 
Renegades and their associated cults. 


THE DEFENCE OF TERRA 

As the first warp storms broke over Holy 
Terra, its pollution-filled skies turned a 
roiling crimson. Khorne, heedless of the 
plans of his brothers and hungry to prove 
his superiority, sent forth eighty-eight 
cohorts of his Daemon legions to assault 
the Emperor’s Palace. The Blood God 
wanted the glory of tearing down the 
Golden Throne for himself, and so the 
skies of Terra congealed into blood- 
clouds that deployed the red host directly 
before the Lion’s Gate. 


The gun batteries of the Imperial Palace 
are second to none, yet they alone could 
not halt this red tide. Led by Roboute 
Guilliman, the newly reappointed 
Lord Commander of the Imperium, 
the Primaris Space Marines, Adeptus 
Custodes and Sisters of Silence fought 
side by side. Although the rash Chaos 
assault was turned back and broken 
long before it could reach the Eternity 
Gate, the High Lords were shaken 
at the boldness of the foe. Without 
the beam of the Astronomican, their 
arcane machinery and protective 
devices were not enough to halt the 
fell powers from materialising even on 
Holy Terra. Khorne, upon receiving the 
returning forms of his slain, grew so 
apoplectic in his rage that his fortress 
trembled. So great was the heat from his 
outburst that the essences of the eight 
Bloodthirsters that led the failed attack 
were wholly obliterated. 


THE GATE IS BROKEN 

Cadia had stood so long, and so proudly. 
The gate through which the enemy 
could not pass. For the whole Age of 
the Imperium, that bastion planet bore 
the brunt of countless Chaos assaults as 
the daemonic forces attempted to reach 
Terra. Cadia, and the fortified worlds 
of its system, were for long centuries 
a redoubt that withstood every horror 
that issued from the Eye of Terror. In the 
Dark Imperium there was no assurance, 
however, from which direction the Chaos 
forces would attack; the only assurance 
was that they would. 


mm* 


THE VICTOR LIVES IN HONOUR; THE VANQUISHED DIES IN SHAME. 
















> 


Q ^ 




Although Cadia was ultimately reduced 
to a burning wasteland by Abaddons 
endless assaults, the worlds in the wider 
Cadian System fought hard to destroy 
the spearhead the Despoiler had plunged 
into their midst. The Great Exodus of 
Cadia had seen swathes of the Imperial 
defence redeployed to the sister worlds of 
the fortress planet, and not before time. 
Every realm touched by the Cicatrix 
Maledictum was blighted by intense 
Daemon storms, howling tempests that 
carried a thousand types of death upon 
their fell winds. Where those baleful 
hurricanes blew strongest, the scions 
of the Dark Gods would stride from 
the aether and bring battle anew to the 
defenders of Mankind’s realm. Hundreds 
of battles. Uncounted billions of 
casualties. The skies of Belis Corona were 
lit with fire as the conquering fleets of 
Abaddon’s endless armadas clashed with 
the Imperial Navy of the Segmentum 
Obscurus. The forge world of Agripinaa, 
its legions bold enough to have raided the 
Eye of Terror in the past, was assailed by 
covetous Warpsmiths and the menageries 
of Daemon Engines that stormed forth at 
their behest. Again and again the stakes 
were raised as the forces of Chaos rode 
upon the winds of the Great Rift. 


THE HOUR OF 
THE DAMNED 

Although all communications were cut, 
they received the distress calls. When 
travel was impossible, they arrived 
unlooked for. When all hope was lost, 
they strode forth out of the Blackness, 
a legion of vengeance, a brotherhood 
of flame. The Legion of the Damned 
appeared on Baal, Armageddon, 
Antagonis and hundreds more planets 
besides. They spoke only with bolter 
and chainsword, meting out terrible 
punishments upon the enemies of the 
Imperium before themselves vanishing 
without a trace. Truly the hour of the 
damned had come... 


A LIGHT IN 
THE DARKNESS 

From blackness there came a light. 

A brief flash, then distant blinks. 
Intermittently, the rays of the 
Astronomican lanced outwards from 


& ? Q IOg 


Holy Terra. Deeply the beam pierced the 
maelstrom that smothered the galaxy, 
but it could not pierce the Great Rift. In 
the north-eastern half of the galaxy, they 
could see little or none of the Emperor’s 
guiding light - the Cicatrix Maledictum 
simply swallowed its illumination. Now 
that messages could once again be sent 
through the warp, Terra received such a 
backlog of terror shrieks that half of the 
already-depleted Astropath core were 
instantly driven insane. The survivors 
were appalled to discover how many 
planets, even on the Terran side of the 
Great Rift, did not respond. Slightly less 
than half of the one thousand Space 
Marine Chapters remained unaccounted 
for, and no less than twelve Space 
Marine Chapter Planets were reported as 
destroyed during the Noctis Aeterna and 
the bitter campaigns that followed. Some 
Space Marines, like the White Consuls, 
escaped the destructions of their fortress 
worlds. Others died to a man, as did the 
Sky Sentinels, when their home world of 
Pranagar was overrun by none other than 
Magnus the Red, Daemon Primarch of 
the Thousand Sons. 


Should the isolated Imperium Nihilus 
regain contact, the number of known 
losses will only grow, as the Lords of 
Terra learn the grim truth. 


THE INDOMITUS 
CRUSADE 

After his defence of Holy Terra, Roboute 
Guilliman gathered a new armada. Along 
with elements of the Adeptus Custodes, a 
small contingent of the Silent Sisterhood, 
and a vast war host of Primaris Space 
Marines from many newly founded 
Chapters, the Primarch set a winding 
course. Strike forces from over a dozen 
pre-existing Chapters of Space Marines, 
led by the Imperial Fists, joined the 
fleet. Thus began many new legends as 
Guilliman travelled to aid beleaguered 
planets, breaking sieges and sweeping 
away invaders to bring hope back to 
the desperate defenders. It was not long 
before word began to spread, as all those 
planets that could receive astropathic 
messages hailed the return of a hero out 
of myth. Once more, one of the demigods 
of the past fought for the Imperium 
of Mankind. 



‘BUTCHER YOUR 
ENEMY’S WARRIORS 
WITHOUT MERCY. 
CRUSH HIS ARMIES AND 
LEAVE NONE ALIVE. BUT 
DO NOT STOP THERE. 
BURN HIS CITIES. BOMB 
HIS WORLDS FROM 
ORBIT. SLAUGHTER 
EVERYTHING AND 
EVERYONE UNTIL HE 
KNEELS IN THE ASHES OF 
THOSE HE SOUGHT TO 
PROTECT. ONLY THEN 
WILL HE UNDERSTAND 
THE TRUE FURY OF THE 
DARK GODS.’ 


- Haakor of the 
Black Legion 




» 3 




THERE IS NO SUBSTITUTE FOR ZEAL. 


51 
























THE STAND AT 
ARMAGEDDON 

For much of the millennium the planet 
of Armageddon had been a battleground. 
First invaded by Chaos, it was later 
the site for a massive war between the 
Ork hordes of Ghazghkull Thraka and 
the forces of the Imperium. Although 
the infamous greenskin leader left to 
establish new stomping grounds, the 
onslaught continued. Not even the 
hellstorms unleashed by the Great Rift 
could halt the fighting, but they did 
change its nature. During the Noctis 
Aeterna, reinforcements were cut off 
for both sides, and those en route to the 
system were swept into oblivion. Those 
that remained on Armageddon were 
forced to fight off not just each other, 
but the oncoming waves of Daemons. At 
times, so desperate were the defenders 
that Ork and humans fought alongside 
each other against the greater threat. Such 
temporary ceasefires never lasted long. 

By the time the Astronomican returned 
and travel through the storm-ridden 
immaterium was once again possible, the 
Imperial relief force arrived to find the 
landscape greatly changed. At the height 
of the warp storms, the forces of Tzeentch 
and Khorne had battled each other. The 
Orks and Imperial forces sought cover 
as titanic Greater Daemons duelled for 
supremacy. Fully half the planet had 
warped into what looked like a Daemon 
world - a hellish landscape merged over 
the top of what had once been a war-torn 
hive world. The Imperial forces, with 
elements of nine Space Marine Chapters 
led by the Salamanders, succeeded in 
halting the ritual that would have brought 
Angron, the Primarch of the World 
Eaters, back to the planet that had defied 
him in ages past. 

DEVASTATION OF BAAL 

After sacrificing the shield worlds of the 
Cryptus System to fend off the xenos’ 
earliest advance, the planet of Baal itself 
came under intense attack by Hive Fleet 
Leviathan. The Tyranid fleet was of such 
mass, even after its considerable losses, 
that it blotted the stars from the skies. 
Lord Commander Dante bolstered the 
formidable defences of the Blood Angels’ 
home world and her moons like never 


before. Never one to await attack, he also 
sent forth scores of pre-emptive strike 
forces to delay, mislead, and whittle 
down the living armada. Hundreds 
of splinter fleets were thus defeated. 
Dante’s call, beseeching the Blood 
Angels’ successors to send immediate 
aid to their parent Chapter, did not go 
unheeded. The Flesh Tearers were the 
first to arrive, and ultimately all the 
successor Chapters save the Lamenters 
answered. Even the Knights of Blood, 
who had been declared Excommunicate 
Traitoris by the High Lords of Terra, 
arrived to bolster the defences. It was 
still not enough. 

Learning at an exponential rate, Hive 
Fleet Leviathan could not be thwarted 
by the same strategy twice. Advancing 
steadily, their superior numbers cleared 
the sector of life before the xenos made 
planetfall upon Baal and her twin moons. 
The first nineteen waves, each larger than 
the last, were driven off at great loss to the 
Blood Angels and their successor allies. 
Five Chapter Masters fell in that bitter 
fighting, three in the Battle at the Dome 
of Angels alone. The Tyranids began the 
process of draining Baal and her moons, 
absorbing even the rad-poisoned deserts 
of Baal Secundus. With their defences in 
ruin and the moons stripped and broken, 
the remaining Space Marines retreated 
back to the rubble of the Blood Angels’ 
sprawling fortress monastery. There, they 
prepared for a last stand as the next wave 
swept downwards. Doom, it seemed, had 
at last come to the Sons of Sanguinius. 

It was then that the Great Rift cracked 
open the galaxy, and the withered Baal 
System was blasted by the aetheric 
storms. Although no further attack 
waves came from the Leviathan fleet, 
not a single Imperial defender remained 
alive upon the last moon, Baal Prime. 

On Baal itself there were already enough 
Tyranids there to destroy the Imperial 
troops many times over. Even with no 
chance of victory, Commander Dante 
led his troops, each fighting retreat 
seemingly more hopeless than the last. 

As the final perimeter was broken, the 
stars reappeared. Looking skywards, the 
Tyranids sought contact with their hive 
fleet, but it was gone, replaced by a newly 
arrived Imperial fleet. 


3 1 MiJWftj! 


TO QUESTION IS TO DOUBT. 















5 © 


? © 




that once gloried hives became pits and 
agri worlds became slime-ridden ruins. 
Chaos was encroaching on many fronts 
when Roboute Guilliman returned. It was 
his tactical acumen that first stabilised 
the many war fronts, and his Spear of 
Espandor counter-attacking campaign 
that successfully bought the forces of the 
Imperium still more time. At the Gates of 
Parmenio, Roboute Guilliman defeated 
the Greater Daemon Septicus and his 
Plague Guard. At lax, once a glorious 
garden world, Primarch met Primarch as 
Guilliman confronted Mortarion, the two 
brothers fighting to a deadlock before 
the Chaos forces mysteriously withdrew 
under cover of a virus bomb. 

NO SAFE PASSAGE 

An intermittent passage through 
the Great Rift was discovered, yet it 
brought little hope to the Imperium. 

The Cicatrix Maledictum had at least 
one gap, although others were reported 
but not confirmed. The passage was 
near the Eye of Terror, which had been 
avoided by Navigators since the Great 
Crusade, for warp storms and strange 
anomalies had always made the region 
too dangerous to travel. There, when 
the swirling nebula lulled, was revealed 
the Nachmund System. Its Tyrant King, 
Kaligius, ruled over a Household of 
Fallen Knights that had not been seen 
since the Horns Heresy. Claiming Old 
Night had returned, Kaligius rejected 
communications from the Imperium, 
instead making pacts with Renegades 
and pirate fleets. Some starships have run 
the Nachmund Gauntlet successfully, 
but many more have been destroyed 
attempting the journey - the ruined hulks 
of innumerable craft hang suspended in 
space as a ship graveyard. 

ONLY WAR 

As the Imperium gradually realised 
the extent of the nightmare conditions 
created by the Great Rift, they tried to 
adapt to the horrifying new dynamic. 
There were no more shield worlds, no 
more bastion systems. Every planet - 
even Holy Terra - was now on the front 
line of the war for Humanity’s survival. 

Thus did a dark age grow darker. 


TRUE FAITH IS BLIND AND JUSTIFIED. 


Like an angel of vengeance came 
Roboute Guilliman and his crusade. 

After many more battles, Baal was finally 
cleared of the xenos threat. A great 
rebuilding of both world and Chapter 
was undertaken, for the Blood Angels 
and their successors were sorely needed 
elsewhere. What became of Leviathan is a 
mystery, although a clue was found upon 
the now-barren moon of Baal Prime. 
Xenos skulls were piled impossibly 
high in the much-reviled, eight-pillared 
symbol of one of the Blood Angels’ 
most terrible and ancient nemeses: the 
Bloodthirster Ka’Bandha. 

TERRA RETALIATES 

In an effort to seize the initiative, a strike 
force was mustered on Terra, supported 
by an entire army of Adeptus Custodes. 


PLAGUE OF PLAGUES 

Something terrible came out of the 
warp storms as they roiled through the 
southern reaches of Ultima Segmentum. 
Where the seeds of corruption had been 
planted by the Plague That Walks, a new 
and terrible contamination spread. The 
diseased dead rose to claim the living. 
Previously, the walking corpses could 
be destroyed, but now doing so only 
released hordes of Nurglings that writhed 
impossibly out of the withered flesh of 
the fallen. Hive worlds were toppled, and 
as the Blackness descended, there was 
no escape. In the horrific ruins, Cults 
of Corruption slithered out of hiding, 
summoning forth further aid from the 
Realm of Chaos itself. 

So did systems fall, creating the Scourge 
Stars - a trio of sickly systems that 
had fallen to Nurgle. From that power 
base, the Death Guard and Plague 
legions issued, systematically reaping 
planet after planet. On they spread. 

It was none other than the Daemon 
Primarch Mortarion that brought the 
fabled Realm of Ultramar, gem of the 
whole segmentum, under siege. Plague 
bombardments rained down, so severe 


-M 










ARMIES OF THE 

IMPERIUM 


The Imperium of Mankind was founded by force of arms and it is only through 
military might that the empire has been maintained. The galaxy has proven 
to be a hostile place. Planets, space stations, trade routes - all are beset by 
dangers. There is no peace amongst the stars - it is an age of unrelenting war. 
The battle is no longer for colonisation or for supremacy, but for survival. 


‘ALONE, WE STAND 
AS BASTIONS OF 
STRENGTH. BUT 
WHEN WE FIGHT SIDE 
BY SIDE, WE ARE A 
FORTRESS OF FAITH 
THAT NO FOE CAN 
OVERCOME.’ 

- Warmaster Solar 
Macharius 


War, invasion, sedition, corruption to 
Chaos - as the threats to the Imperium 
are multifarious, so too are the agencies 
that fight for Mankind. Some of these, 
such as the stalwart Astra Militarum 
or the legendary Adeptus Astartes, are 
generally known, their efforts lauded 
by the common man. Other military 
branches, such as the shadowy Officio 
Assassinorum or the Ordo Malleus, are 
wholly unknown. Their existence is only 
guessed at by a small percentage of those 
in the upper echelons, but their role is no 
less vital than the more visible forces. 

Each branch of the Imperium’s military 
is independent, with their own duties, 
rituals, chain of command, tactical 
acumen and gear of war. Though diverse, 
the forces of the Imperium often work 
in conjunction with each other, and the 
larger the battle, the more likely it will be 
to see multiple Imperial factions engaged 
in the same war. Massive conflagrations, 
such as the Chaos invasions known 
as the Black Crusades or a major war 
zone such as the one surrounding 
the planet Armageddon, will attract 
representatives from all of Mankind’s 
military institutions. 

There are many variables, but a typical 
Imperial response begins with a 
planetary defence force holding the 
line, broadcasting its situation. As the 
threat level warrants, the innumerable 
assets of the Astra Militarum are called 
upon. Countless soldiers and tanks 
seek first to stabilise a front and then, 
as further reinforcements arrive, drive 
the foe into submission. In addition to 
ferrying the Imperial Guard to and from 


war zones, the Imperial Navy supplies 
orbital bombardments and fleets of 
atmospheric aircraft to dominate the 
skies. The Adeptus Astartes specialise in 
key missions, and strike forces streak in 
to devastate vital enemy positions, slay 
powerful leaders or capture key terrain 
features or strategic assets. Then the 
Space Marine forces are quickly off again, 
deploying elsewhere for another rapid 
strike. Where their interests are involved, 
such as the recovery of lost STCs or the 
defence of a forge world, the armies of the 
Adeptus Mechanicus are also drawn to 
battle. In the most sprawling of conflicts, 
the Titan Legions are deployed, their 
world-shaking firepower reserved for 
the most impregnable of fortresses and 
the direst of enemies. Imperial Knights 
might join the fray, bringing squadrons 
of their enormous walkers at the behest 
of their home world, or in honour of 
fealty oaths to the Golden Throne or the 
Adeptus Mechanicus. As fanatical shock 
troops, the Sisters of Battle mercilessly 
purge any who would deny the Emperor’s 
true way, while unseen and unheard 
Imperial Assassins ply their deadly 
craft. And as always, the influence of the 
Inquisition is everywhere, imposed by its 
dauntless agents. 

To coordinate such diverse forces upon 
linked battlefields that might stretch 
across whole star systems, the Imperium 
will assign a supreme commander to 
direct the various branches. Given 
time, such assignments are the purview 
of the High Lords of Terra, but in the 
maelstrom of battle the selection is often 
made by the members of impromptu 
war councils. 


. l&vU o 1 O 

THE INNOCENT MUST BE SACRIFICED TO ENSURE THAT THE GUILTY ARE PUNISHED. 























V J? 


hHp4l 


THE EMPEROR WILL NOT JUDGE YOU BY YOUR MEDALS AND DIPLOMAS; HE WILL JUDGE YOU BY YOUR SCARS. 









mi 











ADEPTUS ASTARTES 

They stand apart from those they protect. Indeed, in many ways, they have given up their humanity in 
order to better serve it. They are a warrior brotherhood unlike any other, made for, trained for, and utterly 
dedicated to war. They are the Space Marines, and they know no fear. 



c 


0 



The foremost of Humanity’s defenders, the Space 
Marines sweep into battle, shattering their foes before 
leaving as abruptly as they arrived. The Adeptus 
Astartes are genetically engineered super-soldiers, living 
weapons raised up from the ranks of Humanity through 
arcane science. Like all legends, there is a mythology 
woven around the Adeptus Astartes, and the line 
between fact and fabrication is often blurred. This is no 
surprise, as the Space Marines were created at the very 
dawn of the Imperium by the Emperor himself. Over 
the long centuries, Chapters have been destroyed and 
replaced, but some can trace their history directly back 
to the fabled First Founding, when Space Marines were 
organised into twenty vast Legions. 

The Adeptus Astartes follow the example of their 
Emperor and their Primarchs, from whose gene- 
seed they were created. With the many threats to the 


Imperium surrounding them - Daemons, heretics, 
and xenos - the Adeptus Astartes are tested as never 
before. Many of the bastion walls of the Imperium 
have crumbled, but the rapid strike forces of the Space 
Marines fill the breaches. Led by a Chapter Master, 
most Chapters are composed according to the Codex 
Astartes - a doctrine written by Primarch Roboute 
Guilliman of the Ultramarines Chapter soon after the 
Horns Heresy. The Codex Astartes dictates all aspects 
of Chapter organisation and battlefield tactics to ensure 
the efficiency and loyalty of the most effective military 
force the galaxy has ever seen. According to its regimen, 
a Chapter is broken into ten companies, each of which 
is made of ten squads of ten warriors that fulfil specific 
battlefield roles. Other Chapter war assets include 
armoured vehicles, Dreadnoughts, atmospheric strike 
craft, bikes, and a fleet to transport it all to wherever it is 
most needed. 






















A Chapters gene-seed is the fundamental genetic 
material required to grow and develop the specialised 
organs that, alongside intensive psycho-indoctrination 
and countless hours of physical and spiritual training, 
transform a novitiate into a Space Marine. These organs 
react with an aspirant’s physiology to stimulate muscle 
growth, bone-hardening and many other augmentative 
changes. The creation of a Space Marine is a long and 
sometimes fatal process, the different stages of which 
must occur in a precise order. Various Chapters use 
a number of their own specialised rites during these 
stages, revered rituals from a time when the Emperor 
himself led the Space Marines to battle. Should a 
recipient survive the initial steps of this ordeal, he will 
receive a second heart, a multi-lung, and numerous 
other glands, nodes, and organs that boost his physical 
and mental abilities, as well as granting him superlative 
healing characteristics and increased resistance to 
poison, the hard vacuum of space, and the ability to 
interface with his power armour. Space Marines that 
complete their transformation have heightened senses, 
an ability to spit acid, and an enhanced frame ready for 
the rigours of endless war. Their new progenoid glands 
replicate further gene-seed, allowing their genetic 
superiority to be passed down to future battle-brothers. 
On the battlefield, this takes the form of the harvesting 
of the progenoid glands of fallen Space Marines by their 
Apothecaries. It is the grim duty of these warriors to 
ensure the noble lineage of their Chapter continues, and 
by use of narthecium and reductor, they reclaim the 
gene-seed from their fallen comrades. 


even gene-seed in its potency. Thus were created a new 
generation of Adeptus Astartes, the Primaris Space 
Marines - taller, stronger and clad in mighty Mk X 
power armour - though it had taken Cawl nearly 
ten thousand years to finish his work. The Primaris 
Space Marines were presented to Guilliman after his 
resurrection, and were deployed en masse in the Ultima 
Founding, bastions of hope in a galaxy torn apart by 
the Great Rift. The Indomitus Crusade saw them spread 
throughout the galaxy as part of Guilliman’s strike 
against a new age of darkness, to lend their strength 
wherever it might be needed. 

As such, existing Chapters across the galaxy welcomed 
Primaris reinforcements, and new Chapters composed 
entirely of Primaris Space Marines were created. So did 
the Emperor’s Angels of Death carry forth the genetic 
heritage of the Primarchs with a fierce new potency and 
savagery, a power set to match, and perhaps conquer, the 
dreadful cataclysm that had befallen the galaxy. 


All in all, nineteen specialised organs are found in nearly 
every Space Marine created since the First Founding, 
with an extra three appearing in their Primaris brethren. 
This is due to adjustments in the gene-seed implantation 
process, pioneered by Archmagos Dominus Belisarius 
Cawl on orders he received from Roboute Guilliman 
soon after the Second Founding. In the wake of the 
Great Betrayal, Guilliman foresaw a potential future 
in which Humanity was besieged as never before by 
heretics, aliens and worse. He set Cawl to augmenting 
the process of Space Marine creation to make even 
mightier warriors for the defence of Mankind, better 
defended against bullet, blade and mortal injury. To 
assist the Archmagos in this endeavour, Guilliman 
entrusted Cawl with many wondrous artefacts, including 
the Sangprimus Portum - a device containing genetic 
material harvested from the Primarchs that went beyond 


THE DAY: THERE IS PURITY OF 


GENE-SEED 

The warriors of the Adeptus Astartes surpass human excellence, being far stronger, faster, and more 
resilient than ought to be possible. The secret to their superhuman nature is the bio-engineered gene-seed 
of the Primarchs, the potential of which was further exploited in the creation of Primaris Space Marines. 













PRIMARIS ARMOURY 

When the locked forge vaults of Archmagos Dominus 
Belisarius Cawl at last were opened on Mars, a new arsenal of 
armour and weapons was made ready for the new forces of the 
towering Primaris Space Marines. 


BOLT RIFLE 

Shown above is a Mk II Cawl-pattern bolt rifle. Like all weapons in the 
bolter family, the bolt rifle fires small, self-propelled missiles known as 
bolts which explode with devastating effect. The bolt rifle has a longer 
range and slightly more penetrating power compared to the standard- 
issue boltgun. 


ASSAULT BOLTER 

Centuries of tinkering improvements by Archmagos Cawl resulted 
in the creation of the assault bolter - a handheld pistol version of the 
conventional heavy bolter. Although short-ranged, its rate of firepower 
and hitting strength are considerable, with the recoil contained by 
a mag-shield. 


PLASMA INCINERATOR 

Imperium-produced plasma weapons all fire searing bursts of energy, 
but the Mk III Belisarius-pattern plasma incinerator is the most 
advanced of its kind, firing a potent armour-melting blast with no risk 
of overload. The same cannot be said when the plasma incinerator is 
fired on its deadly overcharged setting, however. 


L Mk X power armour does not have a 
single appellation (like Mk VII ‘Aquila’ 
armour). Instead, different variants are 
worn depending on the Space Marines’ role. 
Intercessor Squads, for example, wear Mk X 
Tacticus armour. 


2. Sloped pauldrons, or shoulder pads, 
are used to deflect enemy fire. Space 
Marines are trained to use these angles to 
deflect shots. 


3. The thickest layer of ceramite is over the 
chest-plate, protecting not just the power 
armour’s cables, but also most of a Space 
Marine’s vital internal organs. 


4. Dominus-class purity seal. These wax seals 
and parchment are inscribed with the holy 
words of the Crux Imperius. 


5. The Mk II Cawl-pattern bolt rifle is wielded 
like an extension of a Space Marine’s 
weaponised physique. 


6. Absolutis ballistic-appeasement auto¬ 
reliquary, allows for autosanctification of 
bolt weaponry in combat. 


7. Flanged poleyns, made of melded plasiron 
and ceramite, provide extra protection over 
vulnerable joints. 


8. Greaves. These incorporate gyroscopic 
stabilizers and can magnetise the soles 
of the armour’s boots, allowing Space 
Marines to walk on metal surfaces in 
treacherous terrain, including zero-gravity 
environments - essential for boarding 
actions in the cold battlefield of space. 


THE BURDEN OF FAILURE IS THE MOST TERRIBLE PUNISHMENT OF ALL. 





















4V- r' I 



■ ^ 1 .” Jr 

iH 



■, a jH 

H '■ 5 ' Zflj 

■"/■ 


■ m / 

PK" lii 




BT 

/T 











A THOUSAND CHAPTERS 

As outlined in the Codex Astartes, Space Marines are organised into independent armies, called Chapters, 
of which there are roughly one thousand spread throughout the galaxy. Each Chapter maintains its own 
fleet, heraldic uniforms and distinct identity. 






Imperial Fists 
1st Founding 



Dark Angels 
1st Founding 




Black Templars 
Imperial Fists Successor 


Crimson Fists 
Imperial Fists Successor 


Fulminators 
Ultramarines Successor 


Rift Stalkers 
Raven Guard Successor 



Iron Hands 
1st Founding 


Blood Angels 
1st Founding 


Jfl? 

Knights of the Chalice Blades of Vengeance 

Blood Angels Successor Dark Angels Successor 


White Scars 
1st Founding 


Salamanders 
1st Founding 


INNOCENCE PROVES NOTHING. 




.. 
































m 


,, 



The exemplary Chapter, the 
Ultramarines are perhaps 
the most honoured of their 
legendary kind. 


The Ultramarines have covered themselves 
in glory since the fledgling days of the 
Imperium, when they liberated more planets 
during the Great Crusade than any other 
Legion. The triumphs continued during 
the Indomitus Crusade where they aided 
their recently returned Primarch, Roboute 
Guilliman, in battles across the galaxy. 


Sergeant 


Veteran 

Sergeant 


Veteran 


Lieutenant 


The bulk of the Ultramarines 
Chapter consists of Space Marines 
clad in existing marks of armour, 
such as this Mk VII battleplate. 


Each of the ten companies of Ultramarines - except the Scout Company - is 
designated by a different edge colour on its battle-brothers’ shoulder guards. 


Space Marine 
squads indicate their 
overall battlefield 
role through a clear, 
simple system of 
markings applied to 
their shoulder guards. 
Battleline squads, 
for example, make 
up the strategic core 
of any given force. 

By comparison, fire 
support provide 
heavy firepower, while 
veteran units are 
especially experienced. 


Battleline 


Fire Support 


By order of Primarch Guilliman, the 
Ultramarines were the first Chapter 
to receive the new Mk X Space 
Marine armour. 


Close Support 


Veteran 


MACRAGGE 


The planet Macragge is 
the home world of the 
Ultramarines Chapter. 
The heart and capital of 
the Realm of Ultramar, 
Macragge is a great 
bastion of the Imperium. 
It has come under 
assault many times, but 
always, the Ultramarines 
have emerged victorious. 


% 


Vi 

w 


1 


■ 


i 


3S' 


UPON THE EMPEROR’S ENDEAVOUR WE ENTRUST OUR FUTURE. 




v l* 






































BLOOD ANGELS 


Known for their ferocity, the Blood Angels bear 
within them all that is good and noble, yet their 
gene-seed also contains a destructive flaw. So must 
every Blood Angel rein in his fury, holding in 
abeyance the blood-madness. 


Created during the First Founding, the Blood Angels are one 
of the oldest and proudest of all Space Marine Chapters. In the 
Great Crusade they established their bloodthirsty zeal, favouring 
aggressive tactics, close combat and the use of jump packs, and 
they have maintained this fierce reputation ever since. The Blood 
Angels are equally noted for their unceasing quest for perfection in 
all their endeavours - from the flawless execution of a battle plan 
to the aesthetics of their wargear. Yet for all their honours, for all 
their storied accomplishments fighting at the forefront of the 
Imperium’s many wars, the Blood Angels are deeply marred. Since 
the closing days of the Horns Heresy, when their angelic, winged 
Primarch, Sanguinius, was viciously killed at the hands of Horns 
himself, the Blood Angels have been haunted by a curse. That 
the Sons of Sanguinius fight on, despite the blood rage that seeks 
to overwhelm them, body and soul, only makes their selfless 
sacrifice all the nobler. Although held in awe and feared in equal 
measure by those they protect, the Blood Angels continue to smite 
the Imperium’s foes, compiling a battle history second to none. 


THE BLACK RAGE 

On the eve of battle, Blood Angels are prone to 
apocalyptic visions that can plunge them into 
a spiral of madness. Death is the only release 
from this malady. It is almost inevitable that this 
fate will eventually overtake every Blood Angel. 
This Black Rage is a psychic imprint left by their 
Primarch Sanguinius’ death. Left in a frenzied 
state, those warriors suffering from the Black Rage 
seek only to charge and hack their foes. Over the 
centuries, the Blood Angels and their successor 
Chapters have learned how to best wield these 
warriors, forming them into a Death Company 
from which these berserkers are hurled into 
battles that no sane warrior would risk. It is better 
that they should achieve an honourable death in 
combat for the cause of the Imperium than face 
the final stages of uncontrollable fury, turning the 
once noble warriors into little more than snarling 
beasts. In the Blood Angels, those suffering from 
the Black Rage don black armour daubed with red 
crosses, signifying the wounds of Sanguinius. 












The Dark Angels shun glory and fight only to punish 
transgressors against the Emperor. Behind their stern 
facade, however, lies a dark obsession. Haunted by 
their past, they remain the Unforgiven. 


The Dark Angels were the first Legion created by the Emperor. 
Theirs is a mysterious and taciturn Chapter, their every 
action steeped in secretive traditions and rituals. 

What is known about the Dark Angels is that time Tjjfe 

and again they have stubbornly stood their 
ground against overwhelming odds until 
they eventually emerge victorious. Despite a 
history full of such heroics, they are viewed 
suspiciously by many in the Imperium, 
who claim that the Dark Angels follow 
their own clandestine agenda. Such *4^1 

allegations are never answered 
acknowledged - the Dark Angels remain 
silent and brooding. The organisation of 
the Dark Angels differs from the practices 
laid out by the Codex Astartes, most notably 
in their 1st and 2nd Companies - elite 
formations known internally as the Deathwing 
and the Ravenwing. 


or even 


DEATHWING 


The Dark Angels 1st Company, the Death wing, 
are distinct from their brothers in several ways. 
The formation consists entirely of veterans 
and Masters-in-training known as Deathwing 
Knights, and the entire company goes to battle 
in Terminator armour. Their triumphs against 
impossible odds are lauded across the Imperium. 

A single squad teleporting into the thick of 
fighting can turn the tide of almost any battle - the 
entire company deployed en masse can win an 
entire war. The Deathwing bear their own heraldry 
and don armour of bone white, not the dark green 
armour of their brethren. As members of the 
Inner Circle they are privy to some, but not all, of 
the Dark Angels’ many secrets. 


RAVENWING 


The Dark Angels 2nd Company, known as the 
Ravenwing, are even more unusual than the 
Death wing. A highly mobilised formation used for 
scouting and lightning-fast strikes, they use speed 
and surprise to catch their quarry. To this end, 
every single Space Marine in the company goes to 
battle atop an armoured assault bike or within a 
Land Speeder or atmospheric fighter. Organised 
into Attack and Support Squadrons, they work in 
coordination with the rest of the Chapter, chasing 
down foes, heading off retreats, and often working 
as a one-two punch with the Deathwing, using 
teleport homers to bring their brothers into the 
heart of the battle. The vehicles and power armour 
of the Ravenwing are both an ominous black. 














SPACE WOLVES 



Though some may see them as little more than savages, the Space Wolves are a proud 
brotherhood, every bit as loyal as they are fierce. They are amongst the most notorious of 
all the Adeptus Astartes, and their raucous, boastful ways can rankle the sternest of other 
Chapters, but none can deny the bold heroism that they display again and again. 


The Space Wolves are a fiercely independent Chapter 
that has served the Imperium with distinction since the 
First Founding. Courageous to the extreme, each Space 
Wolf strives to perform great deeds on the battlefield 
worthy of song. Made feral in thought and appearance 
by the genetic heritage of their legendary Primarch, 
Leman Russ, the Space Wolves revel in their unorthodox 
nature. They have little patience for fawning religious 
rites, Codex Astartes rules, or strict adherence to the 
conventions of others, preferring to follow the warrior 
traditions from their savage home world of Fenris. 

In war zontfafter war zone, the Space Wolves have 
spent the entire Age of the Imperium building upon 
their outstanding reputation, earning one of the most, 


impressive tallies of victory in the Imperium. Their 
ability to strike quickly and savagely has made them a 
peerless shock-assault force, and they are also known 
to tirelessly pursue villainous forces, hunting them 
down and destroying them no matter the obstacles. Yet 
despite their long and excellent service, the only known 
successor Chapter of the Space Wolves were the ill-fated 
Wolf Brothers. A flaw was recognised in the genetic seed 
of Leman Russ - which would later manifest itself in 
the emergence of the Wulfen - and it is because of this 
aberrance and their blatant disregard for authority that 
the Space Wolves have gained many naysayers within 
the Imperium, particularly the often scoffed-at and 
ignored officers of the Adeptus Administratum. 





WULFEN 


The Wulfenkind were the 13th Great Company of 
the Space Wolves Legion, the most savage warriors 
of all. It was they who pursued the Thousand Sons 
Primarch, Magnus the Red, into the Eye of Terror 
when he fled the Massacre at Prospero. They were 
lost until shortly before the Noctis Aeterna, when 
they returned from the Eye, having grown even 
more bestial in appearance and savage in war. 



GREY KNIGHTS 


Created to fight Mankind’s most 
dreaded foe, the Grey Knights are 
a Chapter unlike any other. They 
are devoted, reclusive, and each is 
powerfully psychic. 


Amongst the elite brotherhood of Space Marines, there 
exists a Chapter destined to stand apart, for it is their 
sworn duty to fight Chaos in its most terrible form. 

The Grey Knights act as the military arm of the Ordo 
Malleus, the Daemonhunters who form the oldest 
branch of the Inquisition. Founded on an order from 
the Emperor himself, each Grey Knight is a potent 
psyker, pure of heart and just of cause. This is essential, 
for in their battles, they seek out and confront the most 
horrible of Daemons wherever the warp fiends appear. 
Privy to the darkest secrets of Mankind and armed with 
deadly Nemesis force weapons and the most advanced 
wargear in the Imperium, the Grey Knights are the 
ultimate foil to the warp-spawned minions of the 
Ruinous Powers. With the outpouring of Chaos from 
the Great Rift, the Grey Knights have been called upon 
as never before. 


I WSM 


Just as the Adeptus Astartes are recruited exclusively 
from the most promising warriors of all Mankind, so 
are the Deathwatch formed from only the most proven 
of all Space Marines. Many Chapters have pledged a 
tithe, lending a portion of their strength to the endless 
war against the xenos threat. Thus, the Deathwatch 
is formed from an amalgamation of the best warriors 
drawn from many different Chapters, each bringing 
with them their own unique strengths. Typically 
working in conjunction with the Inquisition’s Ordo 
Xenos, Deathwatch Kill Teams are deployed to counter 
the direst of encroaching alien threats. The Deathwatch 
are a brotherhood of heroes, the elite of the elite, and 
each unit is distinctive in their skills and armaments, yet 
all are clad in the black armour of the Deathwatch. To 
the Deathwatch, there are but two options - to contain 
the xenos, or to purge them. 


THROUGH ALL OUR MEANS WE FOLLOW THE EMPEROR’S COMMAND. 


Against the Xenos threat there can be 
no respite. When a Necron tomb world 
stirs, or the perfidious Aeldari make their 
move, they are stymied, for the long vigil 
of the Deathwatch stands over Mankind. 


DEATHWATCH 










rv ^ v- h 



Jxll 

*8$LL 


Ur 


*■’ i 5?.fl5f frw%yj 

.*>" : M **** 




■»•• i 



ASTRA MILITARUM 

Manpower is the ImperiunTs greatest resource, and it is a currency readily spent. The forces of the Astra 
Militarum are so numerous that not even the Departmento Munitorum knows how many soldiers are in 
uniform. From across the galaxy regiments form up and rise from the trenches, taking their place at the 
head of a battlefront that stretches across one million planets. 




THE HUMBLE LASGUN 


When the Imperial Guard go to 
war, they do so organised into 
regiments. Each regiment is largely 
uniform in composition, meaning 
an infantry regiment will be made 
up primarily of foot soldiers, with 
little in the way of heavy artillery 
or armour. Likewise, an artillery 
regiment will be made up entirely 
of serried batteries of big guns and 
other long-ranged weaponry, and 
will contain little, if any, infantry. 

If an Imperial Guard regiment 
were forced into battle individually 
it would struggle, for each 
homogeneous force is vulnerable 
without support - infantry by 


themselves can be smashed by 
armoured foes, while tanks alone 
are poor at holding ground, finding 
themselves prone to ambushes, 
especially in areas of dense terrain 
where manoeuvrability suffers. Such 
is the immense size of the forces 
deployed by the Imperial Guard, 
however, that the idea of lone 
regiments is preposterous. Every 
Imperial Guard army is composed 
of many regiments, and a wise 
commander will marshal his myriad 
divisions to fight as a combined- 
arms force - drawing men, vehicles, 
elite squads and even abhumans 
from different regiments, brigading 
them together as suits availability 
and the needs of the battlefront. It 
is beneath the banners of the Astra 
Militarum that the fate of Mankind 
rests, for by their victories does the 
Imperium survive. 


The most lethal weapon wielded by the Astra Militarum is not a 
massive missile, nor is it a super-heavy battle tank. More enemy kills are 
accounted for by the standard-issue lasgun than any class of missile or 
tank. It is steady, reliable, and rugged - the perfect infantry weapon. A 
lone lasgun might give few xenos pause, but when deployed in billions- 
strong formations, it has proven capable of defending a galaxy-wide 
empire for nearly ten thousand years. 


The Astra Militarum, also known 
as the Imperial Guard, is Mankind’s 
primary and most numerous 
defence. With soldiers, battle tanks 
and artillery beyond number, they 
are a sledgehammer force that 
delivers a devastating payload 
against the Emperor’s foes. Soldiers 
of the Imperial Guard are not gene- 
enhanced super-humans and they 
do not fight with the most finely 
crafted armaments in the galaxy. 
They are but men who fight with 
whatever weapons and armour can 
be cheaply mass-produced. They 
are, however, the largest coherent 
fighting force in the galaxy, able 
to move massed regiments and 
armoured vehicles to join any fray. 
The Astra Militarum achieve their 
victories through hellstorms of 
firepower, grinding attrition and 
sheer dogged determination. 


A LIBERATED MIND IS A HAVEN FOR TREACHERY. 


There are numerous patterns of lasgun in use, from the Lucius-pattern 
No. 98 lasgun used by the Death Korp of Krieg to the Mk IV Catachan 
lascarbine. They are often named after the forge world or manufactorum 
that made the original model (as in the Mars-pattern version). 


































REGIMENTS OF DISTINGUISHED SERVICE 

Countless human worlds provide regiments for the Astra Militarum, and some have done so 
since before the Horns Heresy. Most regiments serve honourably but are little known outside 
their own systems. Others, however, become renowned through great deeds, and their names 
praised throughout the Imperium. 


mmm 


Cadian Shock Trooper Catachan Jungle Fighter Valhallan Ice Warrior 


Vostroyan Firstborn 




Death Korp of Krieg 


Armageddon Steel Legion 


Tallarn Desert Raider 


Mordian Iron Guard 


ARMOURED MIGHT 

The Leman Russ is the workhorse battle 
tank of the Imperium. A lone Leman Russ 
can shore up any infantry line, while a 
Leman Russ Squadron can spearhead an 
attack from a war zone’s centre and an 
Emperor’s Fist Tank Company can collapse 
a whole enemy front. With thick armour 
and many variant armaments, the Leman 
Russ is a deadly tool in the arsenal of any 
Imperial Guard commander. 


A common weapons loadout for a Leman Russ includes 
a turret-mounted battle cannon and hull-mounted heavy 
bolter. The side sponsons shown here bear heavy flamers. 


AN IGNORANT MAN IS A DANGER TO HIMSELF; A LEARNED MAN IS A DANGER TO ALL. 






















SPECIALIST DIVISIONS 


f MINISTORUM PRIESTS 

Every regiment of the Imperial 
Guard is required to have at least 
one attached Ministorum Priest. It is 
their duty to administer holy rites as 
dictated by the Ecclesiarchy, and their 
fiery oratory can steady a wavering battle line or drive 
their flock into an impassioned frenzy. Whether this 
ability truly does channel the Emperors powers or 
merely mass hysteria is irrelevant so long as it leads 
to victory. 


ENGINSEERS 

The Adeptus Mechanicus are 
masters of technological mysticism, 
and it is they who look to the 
well-being of the Imperial Guard’s 
engines of war. Enginseers are the most common 
Tech-Priests within the ranks of the Astra Militarum. 
These cybernetic holy men stand aloof from the 
Guardsmen, concerned only with tending to the 
machine spirits of their foster regiment’s many 
vehicles and weaponry. 


f ADEPTUS ASTRA 
TELEPATHICA 

The Adeptus Astra Telepathica is 
responsible for the training of psykers 
into the service of the Imperium. Most 
die during testing, but those who 
survive might become sanctioned into duty with the 
Astra Militarum. Primaris Psykers or formations 
of Wyrdvane Psykers are valuable assets to any 
Imperial commander, even if they are feared by their 
superstitious comrades. 


® MILITARUM 
TEMPESTUS 

An elite, specialist subdivision, 
the Militarum Tempestus train at 
the Schola Progenium. They are 
honed to a proficiency beyond even veteran Astra 
Militarum formations. Militarum Tempestus squads, 
or even entire armies, are used to break open fronts 
or capture key objectives. They are zealots to the 
Imperial cause and will succeed at their mission or 
die in the attempt. 


> o o dMM 




mmm 


The rapid-firing gatling cannon allows the Leman Russ 
Punisher to lay down an overwhelming dose of firepower 
that can mow down enemy infantry or light vehicles. 


Armed with a short-ranged but powerful siege cannon, 
the Leman Russ Demolisher is ideal for blasting foes out 
of even the densest of cover. 




THROUGH FAITHFUL SERVICE WE BRING STRENGTH TO THE IMPERIUM. 






OFFICIO 

PREFECTUS 

The Officio Prefectus 


is the section of the 


Departmento Munitorum that oversees the activities 
of the Commissar officer corps within the Astra 
Militarum. The Officio Prefectus attaches one or more 
Commissars to regiments of the Imperial Guard. 
These stern authoritarians inspire, boost morale, and 
if necessary, take control when commanders or men 
demonstrate an improper lack of zeal or competency. 


MILITARUM 
AUXILLA 

As the nascent Imperium 
regained contact with the rest 
of Humanity, they discovered 
populations that had developed into subspecies. 

Most of these abhumans were killed, but some, such 
as the Ratlings and Ogryns, proved their worth as 
specialists in the Militarum Auxilla. Indoctrinated in 
the Imperial Creed, they are taught self-loathing, and 
watched closely by the Commissars and Priests. 

























The Adeptus Mechanicus, like the Adeptus Astartes, is an autonomous Imperial 
institution. It is led by the priesthood of the Cult Mechanicus - an organisation 
older even than the Imperium, first formed before the Unification of Terra 
- and provides technological expertise to the Imperium. In the name of the 
Omnissiah, as they know the Emperor, they send forth their armies. Each 
of their forge worlds commands its own formidable forces, including 
hosts of battle servitors, congregations of Electro-Priests, the fabled 
Legio Cybernetica, the Centurio Ordinatus, the Ordo Reductor, 
and the Skitarii and Titan Legions. 


mHRS41 


MARS, THE RED PLANET 

The red planet is the birthplace of the Cult Mechanicus, the holiest of worlds save 
only Terra itself. Its surface is covered with vast, smoke-choked forge complexes and 
sprawling refineries, a hive of industry unmatched in the Imperium. Around the 
entire planet is a massive encirclement of orbital constructs known as the Ring of 
Iron. The many armies of Mars wear deep red as homage to their home planet. 







LUCIUS 


The hollow planet of Lucius has at its core a 
fusion reactor so large many have likened it to a 
captive sun. In addition to vast Skitarii Legions, 
the planet is home to the Legio Astorum, a 
loyalist Titan Legion. 


AGRIPINAA 

Agripinaa has always been at the forefront of 
the Imperium’s wars against the encroaching 
darkness of Chaos. They have even launched 
fleets into the Eye of Terror, seeking to take the 
fight to the traitors. 


STYGIES VIII 

No forge world yearns after xenos tech more 
than Stygies VIII. They send forth army after 
army of Skitarii to feed their studies, even 
drawing the Aeldari’s ire after breaching the 
webway in search of the fabled Black Library. 


GRAIA 

Graia resides in a geometrically perfect network 
of space stations known as the Graian Crown. 
The forge world’s priests claim their interest in 
warfare represents a desire for enlightenment, 
though rivals claim they go to war for war’s sake. 


RYZA 

At great cost, Ryza defeated the invasion 
of Warlord Grax. Only the influx of Astra 
Militarum regiments from that campaign 
allowed the forge world to survive subsequent 
Daemon attacks during the Noctis Aeterna. 


METALICA 

Metalica’s Tech-Priests have an obsessive 
revulsion for disorder. Since the first War for 
Armageddon, the priesthood has taken special 
interest in that war zone, sending forth many 
legions and collecting vast amounts of data. 



























WJtw 

v=v 

'll/ 


CENTURIO 

ORDINATUS 

Engines of the 
Omnissiah 


A QUESTIONING SERVANT IS MORE DANGEROUS THAN AN IGNORANT HERETIC. 


One of the mightiest weapons in the 
arsenal of the Adeptus Mechanicus is the 
Legio Cybernetica. Though the robots of 
the Legio Cybernetica once numbered 
enough to shatter entire alien empires, a 
great many have been lost to the ravages 
of time. They were pivotal in the days of 
the Great Crusade, but their existence 
stretches back to predate the Imperium. 
Most battle-automata were destroyed 
and banned, but those deemed righteous 
enough were allowed to continue their 
duties. The secrets of their construction 
are all but forgotten. Because of this, it 
takes a Tech-Priest of surpassing rank to 
sanction their use, and absurd lengths are 
taken to retrieve those that fall in action. 
When their use is permitted, the Legio 
Cybernetica are organised into cohorts 
each consisting of four full-strength 
maniples. Legio Cybernetica Datasmith 
Tech-Priests accompany 
each formation of robotic 


warriors, programming 
their charges’ every move. 
Accompanying those 
relics of Humanity’s 
past are many of 
the faithful Electro- 
Priests. All are led by a 
Tech-Priest Dominus 
who is flanked by his 
hulking battle servitors. 
Incanting codes and 
complex war-blessings, 
they relentlessly seek to 
further the dominion of the 
Machine God, for such is their 
sole purpose. 


COLLEGIA 

TITANICA 


AUXILIA 
MYRMIDON 


God-Machines of the 
Titan Legions 


LEGID CYBERNETICA 








































LEGIDNES SKIT ARM 



Whether in the vanguard of the Quest for Knowledge or in the front lines of a forge world’s defence, the 
Skitarii Legions are the mainstay armies of the Adeptus Mechanicus. On titanium limbs, the Skitarii stalk 
the galaxy’s war zones, collecting data and doing as their Tech-Priest masters bid. They take pride in their 
holy work, glorying in the power of the Omnissiah as their Machine God drives them to ever greater feats. 


Despite much of their flesh 
being plated over or grafted into 
machines, the Skitarii Legions are 
human. Barely. Each warrior has 
been dismembered and rebuilt to 
better serve the Omnissiah. Bionic 
replacements ensure not only the 
Skitarii’s lethality, but also their 
utmost obedience. Neurosync 
implants allow the strictly ordered 
Skitarii cohorts to fight in perfect 
concert, each maniple uplinked 
to their masters. Far from the 
battlefield, a legion’s overseer 
monitors each action, sending 


encoded commands. If needed, 
the Skitarii can be forced into 
suicidal engagements, or possessed 
entirely. The devout Skitarii see 
these incidents as the divine spirit 
of the Omnissiah entering them. 
Tirelessly, the cohorts stride 
forwards, wielding archaic weapons 
so dangerous that anyone in close 
proximity becomes rad-saturated. 
Accompanied by crab-legged 
vehicles and bipedal walkers, 
Skitarii cohorts operate ceaselessly 
until their task is complete or they 
are themselves destroyed. 


SKITARII RADIUM WEAPONS 

Radium weapons are deadly on several counts - if the shot does not kill 
its target outright, the bullet is so thoroughly bathed in radium that it 
can cause instant rad-poisoning. 



Radium jezzail 





w 



LEGIONES 

SKITARII 


LEGIO 

CYBERNETICA 


ORDO 

REDUCTOR 

Warriors of the 

Machine God 


The Host Robotic 


Bringers of 

Blessed Ruin 





FROM DUTY, WORK AND DEATH THERE CAN BE NO RESPITE. 











































Knights are legacies of an ancient time. Rich in 
heritage and heraldry, each Knight is a survivor 
from the Age of Strife, a relic passed down to new 
generations. Once, when the galaxy was dark, they 
alone protected Mankind. 


Knights are massive, single-pilot war machines 
crewed by a Noble. Even a lone Knight can turn 
the tide of battle, for each is an adamantium- 
armoured giant whose weapons speak in roars of 
thunder, its thick armour and ion shields shedding 
enemy fire like spring rain. Most Knights do not fight 
alone, but rather in Households - groupings that 
can often trace their heritage back beyond Imperial 
reckoning. There are two types of knightly household: 
Imperial Knights who align themselves with the 
Imperium, and Mechanicus Knights directly aligned to 
the Adeptus Mechanicus. Individuals detached 
from Noble houses can also fight on their 
own as Freeblades. It is a lucky Imperial 
commander who can add a Knight to his 
order of battle. (• iff;. 


TYBALT, FURY OF VOLTORIS 

Tybalt is the High King of Imperial House Terryn, 
one of the Great Houses. The House Terryn crest is 
proudly displayed upon his tilting plate and the Fury 
of Voltoris is further bedecked with battle honours 
and kill markings. It is said that the telling of High 
King Tybalt’s triumphs takes well over twelve days to 
complete, and it is a tale that is still growing. 












































WALKORN, UNYIELDING IRON 

Walkorn belongs to House Raven, a household closely 
allied to the nearby forge world of Metalica. Walkorn 
and his Knight, Unyielding Iron, have been inducted 
into House Raven’s revered Order of Companions, but 
the Knight bears no mark to distinguish its elite status, 
for House Raven does not use such iconography. 


Known as the Forgotten or Green Knight, Gerantius is 
a legendary Freeblade Knight said to reside at the centre 
of Sacred Mountain, a blessed peak that rises from the 
heart of Alaric Prime’s largest island. There is rumoured 
to be a vault of archeotech and lost lore there, over 
which he stands guard. \, 



V ■- 1 — 





77 




































There are many other factions that can bolster the mainstay armies 
of the Imperium. Often, these have their own independent chains 
of command as well as their own guidelines and priorities. In the 
darkness that besets Mankind, however, all are called upon as 
never before. 


The Imperium is so colossal, 
and the gulf between worlds 
so immense, that fielding and 
coordinating the vast armies that 
are required to protect Mankind 
is all but impossible. It is said by 
the soldiers of the Astra Militarum 
that for each fighting man there 
are a dozen scribes and at least 
two minor officials toiling away, 
recording petty details that no one 
will ever use or consider. However, 
there are innumerable Imperial 
organisations that are set up to work 
around the systemic bureaucracy. 
The Inquisition do so by being 


secretive and submitting to no 
Imperial law or authority save their 
own and that of the Emperor. They 
act as they see fit, often stepping 
in to coordinate between disparate 
factions. The Adeptus Ministorum 
favour their own military wing, 
as they find it protects their assets 
and shrine worlds best. The Officio 
Assassinorum, however, take 
commands from the High Lords 
of Terra alone. There are a million 
worlds, a million factions, and a 
million different needs. Yet the 
Imperium is never stronger than 
when it stands as one... 




THE INQUISITION 

The Inquisition is divided into different 
factions known as Ordos, each specialising 
in combating a particular threat to Mankind. 
The Ordo Malleus stalk all creatures of Chaos. 
The Ordo Xenos are alien hunters who combat 
non-human elements, and the role of the Ordo 
Hereticus is that of witch hunting - dealing 
with psykers, mutants, and traitors. 


OFFICIO ASSASSINORUM 

The Imperium’s covert agency of trained killers 
consists of many different Assassin temples. 
Each specialises in a particular murderous art 
or eliminating specific types of targets. The 
four largest temples are Vindicare, Callidus, 
Eversor, and Culexus, and there are many 
smaller ones as well. They all work in secrecy 
and shadow. 


xix 

xjy 


ADEPTUS CUSTODES 

They who guard Mankind’s past, present 
and future. The Custodian Guard are the 
Emperor’s personal bodyguard. Before the 
Great Rift they rarely left the Emperor’s side, 
standing vigil over the Golden Throne. In 
the dark days since, however, they have, on 
occassion, been seen throughout the galaxy 
fighting alongside the Emperor’s forces. 




ADEPTA SORORITAS 

The promulgators of the Imperial Creed, the 
Adeptus Ministorum, more commonly known 
as the Ecclesiarchy, hosts numerous sub- 
factions, the best known of which are their 
military wing, the Adepta Sororitas, along 
with the orthodox training orphanages of the 
Schola Progenium, and its missionaries, the 
Missionarus Galaxia. 


4 


ADEPTUS ASTRA TELEPATHICA 

Psykers of the first rank chosen off the Black 
Ships are given further training. Those 
who survive fight amongst the ranks of the 
Imperial Guard as Wyrdvane and Primaris 
Psykers. Although feared as witches by their 
own side, these Psykers can crumple tanks 
and halt an oncoming tide of greenksins with 
destructive blasts of mental energies. 


f 























JE/Vnfti. 


Exemplars of all that the Space Marines stand for, the Ultramarines Chapter battle the enemies of the Emperor wherever they 
are found. Led into battle by their mighty Primarch, Roboute Guilliman, they are the bane of heretics and traitors alike. 











Hellblaster 


Intercessor Sergeant 


Roboute Guilliman, Primarch of the Ultramarines 


From the massed ranks of the Astra Militarum and the 
Adeptus Mechanicus, to the superhuman Space Marines and 
the towering war engines of the Knight households, the armies 
of the Imperium are spectacular in their martial might and 
uniformed grandeur. 
























Stubborn masters of siege warfare, the Imperial Fists will fight to the last rather than give ground. Their rivalry with the embittered traitors of 

the Iron Warriors Legion is the stuff of dark legend. 





* 

Uis _[Jerri/ 


1 

Mi (I'd 

Lai l"J |. H L«l | LlJ 11 , 















‘As our bodies are armoured 
with adamant, our souls are 
protected with loyalty. As our 
bolters are charged with death 
for the Emperor’s enemies, our 
thoughts are charged with wisdom. 
As our ranks advance, so does our 
devotion, for are we not the Space 
Marines? Are we not the chosen 
of the Emperor, his loyal servants 
unto death?’ 

- Chaplain Fergas Nils 


Stealth, speed and misdirection are the hallmarks of the Raven Guard Chapter. Striking and fading, feinting and ambushing, the sons of the 

Primarch Corax pick their enemies apart like so much battlefield carrion. 



Hi 






[l] 










DO NOT WASTE YOUR TEARS. 

I WAS NOT BORN TO WATCH THE 
WORLD GROW DIM. LIFE IS NOT 
MEASURED IN YEARS BUT BY THE 
DEEDS OF MEN. 


Imperial Knights are towering bipedal war engines, each piloted by a single 
Noble warrior whose house’s colours and heraldry are displayed proudly upon 
his armour and banners. 



raSYCfl 

- P, 

Jj 



S\\ 1 Tf’ rv 














/* 



i ' J 



r^JRjBPT 'BwL 



nclBHlf 




J JkI’ 






■ mf 










ISvW 

AM 











tJBf Jr 




L -‘ lJ '*■§«■Wt Jf 

v V * 



/ 

mJl 




K0^g 1 

1 | Jr ; 














fe -./J 

' 7 

£5$r 


\ 


P^ V i 










Hailing from mighty forge worlds such as Mars or Metalica, the Adeptus Mechanicus deploy vast armies of cyborg Skitarii into 
battle. Here they fight alongside the Daemon-hunting brotherhoods of the Grey Knights against the minions of Khorne. 


‘A man may die yet still 
endure if his work enters the 
greater work. Time is carried 
upon a current incepted 
by forgotten deeds. Events 
of great moment are but 
the culmination of a single 
carefully placed thought. As all 
men must thank progenitors 
obscured by the past, so we 
must endure the present that 
those who come after may 
continue the greater work.’ 

- The Chime of Eons, 
Garba Mojaro, Prefectus of the 
Adeptus Mechanicus 








j. 















Amongst the greatest of the Adeptus Mechanicus priesthood is Archmagos Dominus Belisarius Cawl. The acquisitive, amoral genius responsible 
for the creation of the Primaris Space Marines, Cawl has worked long on his own cyborg body to transform himself into a living weapon. 













Even amongst a gathering of heroes as auspicious as the Grey Knights, Grand Master Voldus shines as a beacon of piety and might. Gifted with 
phenomenal psychic abilities, he has banished vast hordes of Daemons back to the warp whence they came. 




3 ' 


7T 






Cadian Sergeant 


Catachan Jungle Fighter 


Steel Legion Trooper 


Vostroyan Sergeant 


The ground shakes and the air turns to flame as the massed might of the Astra Militarum attacks. Rank upon rank of infantry, 
abhumans, mobile artillery and lumbering battle tanks roll forwards to crush the enemy without mercy. 








Master of Ordnance 


Tech-Priest Enginseer 


Sanctioned Psyker 


Commissar 


JC : ~. ? w! . DlC i; 

~ yJ: ' 

r..*i JE 



BSiL» 


K^Sui£v^3 



mu 












For the first time in ten thousand years, the mighty warriors of the Adeptus Custodes bestride the stars in force. 





t 

y 




W*j. 




p-"* 


V- h Iffj 









' ^ .gBrCfe'' 





MMygWBraSiBB 

‘ 

fjsfpl 

rj 




jpri »j 




# 5 g« 

P^^Pnj 



BS ' 

lr | 

| l- 

fffe 

t 

l;.^ 

^g^;, | \ 

r 

In 

Ws FTm^' 

1 

fi 41 


















OUR THOUGHTS LIGHT THE DARKNESS THAT 
OTHERS MAY CROSS SPACE. 


WE ARE ONE WITH THE EMPEROR, OUR SOULS 
ARE JOINED IN HIS WILL. 


PRAISE THE EMPEROR, WHOSE SACRIFICE IS LIFE 
AS OURS IS DEATH. 


HAIL HIS NAME, THE MASTER OF HUMANITY. 


extract from The Credo of the Astronomican 


MR 


Most pious of all the Emperor’s servants, the Battle Sisters of the Adepta Sororitas manifest miraculous powers through the 
sheer power of their faith. Greatest amongst their ranks is Celestine, the Living Saint. 


■ Y/** 1 w r 


H ■ , i Wj A 

j 

L vuv A vji,' 



'JKt 

















_ jd 


<1 « 




From the shifting seas of the warp, fearsome entities espy Mankind. From that 
realm of madness, great powers conspire to bring about a doom so absolute 
that the entire galaxy would be consumed - swallowed into an endless oblivion 
of darkness and torture. If such a cataclysm were to happen, there could be no 
hope of recovery, only Chaos. Despite the incessant xenos invasions that beset 
the Imperium, it is this apocalyptic fate that looms largest over Mankind. 


nurturing a festering malignancy. The 
actions of such groups spread over 
time and space, yet work towards the 
same goal - the breakdown of barriers 
between realspace and the warp, and the 
downfall of Man. 


The most powerful of the Chaos forces 
are the Daemons. The servants of the 
Chaos Gods, Daemons are all that is vile 
made manifest. They are not fashioned 
of flesh and blood but of malevolent 
intent - supernatural beings who dine 
on the terror and ambition of man. 
Although the different factions are often 
rivals, Daemons are united in their quest 
to transform the mortal plane into a 
playground for their hateful needs. The 
Daemon legions are innumerable, but 
they are not alone. The Lost and the 
Damned are mortals corrupted into the 
service of the Dark Gods. Of these, the 
mightiest are the Chaos Space Marines, 
traitors who have bargained away their 
souls, discarding oaths of allegiance for 
material power, sensual freedom and the 
chance to attain immortality. They are 
joined by cultists beyond count. On every 
human world there are those who lust 
for power. Such minds are easy prey for 
the Ruinous Powers, and Chaos cults coil 
their way into all levels of the Imperium. 
Who can say which of their fellow 
citizens are pure and which are tainted? 

t ■ *TQ 

YET CLAIM TO KNOW EVERYTHING. 


Few in the Imperium understand the 
true ramifications of what lurks in the 
warp, plotting Man’s demise. It was 
the Emperor, the Master of Mankind, 
who first fathomed the dangers that the 
Ruinous Powers posed to Humanity. 

It was his ill-fated plan that protected 
the Imperium for so long from the 
worst predations of the Dark Gods and 
their daemonic scions. Secretive agents 
of Mankind work tirelessly to thwart 
daemonic incursions into realspace. Even 
after the Great Rift, most citizens of the 
Imperium remained ignorant of the true 
scope of the Chaos threat, for the terror 
that seeks to possess them is so vast it is 
almost impossible for the untrained mind 
to comprehend. 


‘WE FIGHT THE LONG 
WAR, NOT THROUGH 
VAIN NOTIONS OF 
DUTY OR HONOUR, 
BUT THROUGH A 
FAR PURER PURPOSE: 
HATRED.’ 

- Ferrous Ironclaw, 
Warsmith of the 
Iron Warriors 


The Ruinous Powers attack the 
galaxy in interwoven ways, using 
unexpected guises. It is beyond 
mortal comprehension to follow such 
machinations. Was the slaughter on Van 
Horne’s World related to a greater plan, or 
was the bloodbath merely an opportunity 
for the denizens of the warp to enter 
realspace? What was the endgame for the 
corruption of the planetary governor of 
Drakus Prime? Only now can it be seen 
what foul seeds were planted upon the 
worlds infected with the Zombie Plague. 
What hope has Mankind to fathom such 
random, bloodthirsty and immortal foes? 

What can be recognised is that the 
forces of the Dark Gods are legion and 
increasingly seen outside the warp. 
Humanity itself has been corrupted. 

Many have willingly opened their hearts, 
allowing their own hubris, greed or 
envy to lead them astray. Disaffected 
traitors follow selfish goals, unknowingly 
serving a larger purpose. Outcast mutants 
harbour secret resentments, unwittingly 


FOOLISH ARE THOSE WHO FEAR NOTHING, 


FORGES ■CHAOS 

























IT IS THE BITTER TEARS THAT THE GODS WEEP THAT BIND US TO THEIR HEARTS, 










yf 'Ufa 








THE 

CHAOS GODS 

From beyond the boundaries of reality, the Chaos Gods look 
upon the galaxy with covetous eyes. It is their nature, their all- 
consuming purpose, to destroy. Relentless and unstoppable, all 
of their incomprehensible energies are directed to collapsing 
reason and perverting order. 



Far from the light of sun or star lies the infernal, ever-changing Realm 
of Chaos. There, the four Dark Gods rule supreme - the mutable 
landscapes serving as battlegrounds for their daemonic legions. Their 
rivalry is eternal, each god seeking dominance over his brothers. As 
one power gains mastery through warfare, manipulation, corruption 
or sorcery, the others combine against him. New pacts flourish until 
another conqueror emerges, only to be thrown down in his turn. Yet 
there is one thing that can compel these opposing powers to put aside 
their differences for a time and work together. For, above all else, the 
Chaos Gods lust to push through the boundary that separates them 
from the mortal plane, to unleash their wanton destruction upon the 
physical galaxy. Nothing short of total annihilation will ever sate these 
fiends, the dragging of all reality into the Realm of Chaos. 





KHORNE TZEENTCH 


The Blood God The Changer of Ways 

Khorne is the god of war and murder, the The eternal schemer, Tzeentch is the god of 

patron of ferocity. He broods upon a throne magic and change, master of the timestream. 

of brass atop an endless mountain of skulls. He is the Great Conspirator and the Architect 

Carnage is his only desire. of Fate. 




There is nc peace amongst the 
stars , an eternity cf carnage 

and slaughter and the laughter cf 
thirsting gcds. 



The Great Lord of Decay 


The Dark Prince 


Nurgle is the lord of entropy and fecundity, 
the joyous bringer of plague and physical 
corruption. His is the cycle of purification, 
rebirth and morbidity. 


The youngest of the Chaos Gods, Slaanesh 
alone is divinely beautiful. He epitomises 
boundless excess - the Dark Prince is all 
things decadent and debased. 







There are no foes more terrible. From out of the warp they come, bringing ruin and unimaginable horror. 
They are the armies of the Dark Gods, the Daemon legions, and they will only cease their relentless assault 
upon the mortal worlds when reality itself has been torn apart. 


minds shine like beacons within 
the warp. Ships entering the 
immaterium are also vulnerable, 
for if any of their safeguards fail, a 
horrifying fate awaits all on board. 
Permanent gateways to the warp 
exist throughout the galaxy, torn 
open by psychic activity or dark 
rituals. The Cicatrix Maledictum 
is the greatest of these, and it 
continues to degrade the veil 
separating the Realm of Chaos 
from the galaxy. Near such places, 
the powers of Chaos run rampant. 
Warp storms, great stellar trauma 
or vast psychic emanations can also 
draw forth the daemonic legions. 
When the Daemon armies emerge, 
they do so with great purpose - 


bringing war and corruption. If 
enough unnatural energy spills 
out, the most monstrous denizens 
of the warp can cross over - the 
powerful Greater Daemons. At 
their command, daemonic hordes 
slaughter entire populations. To 
drive Daemons back into the Realm 
of Chaos requires depleting the 
warp energies sustaining them. 
Physically slaying them will do, but 
only for a while. The destruction 
of a Daemons physical form will 
banish it from realspace, but the 
malefic presence will gradually 
reform again in the warp, nursing 
its grudge. Given a chance, it will 
return, its hatred further stoked 
with a horrible vengeance in mind. 


In the warp, there exist countless 
Daemons of myriad abhorrent 
shapes, each the spawn of the 
nightmares and vices of mortal 
creatures. Daemons are but aspects 
of the Chaos Gods made sentient. 
The appearance and behaviour 
of a Daemon always betrays the 
character and ambition of its 
creator. So, Bloodletters, the rank 
and file of Khorne’s legions, are 
ferocious creatures, eager to reap 
and slay, as befits minions of the 
God of Battle. 

There are numerous ways in which 
Daemons can invade reality. 
Human psykers present the most 
common means of entry, for their 




of CHADS 


DAEMONS 






DAEMON WORLDS 

Planets near major rents in reality 
can become imbued with arcane 
energies. Those most corrupted of 
worlds - where creatures from the 
warp walk freely - are classified as 
Daemon worlds by the Imperium. 
Few encounter such hellish places 
and survive. Often, Daemon worlds 
are gifted to powerful Greater 
Daemons, Daemon Princes, or 
the Traitor Primarchs as rewards. 
Since the days following the Horns 
Heresy, they have served as refuges 
for the Heretic Astartes, sanctuaries 
of dread from which terror raids 
and Black Crusades are launched. 
Daemon worlds are located near 
major rents in reality, clustered near 
the baleful energies that pour forth 
from such ruptures as the Great Rift, 
the Eye of Terror or the Maelstrom. 
It is a rare individual who can travel 
into such perilous phenomena and 
emerge unaltered. 











■ ■wmm 


OMMUHii 




HERETIC ASTARTES 


The Heretic Astartes, also known as Chaos Space Marines, are fearsome foes. They have a Space Marine’s 
abilities, along with his gear of war, but since turning to the darker powers many also now bear powerful 
mutations or gifts from their patron Chaos Gods, making them mightier still. 


Not all creatures of Chaos are 
its direct offspring. Once proud 
warriors armoured with faith, the 
Chaos Space Marines are now bitter 
and corrupt champions. They are 
hateful reavers who war to serve 
their own fell needs and, in so 
doing, also serve their new masters. 
Between their long histories of 
service, STC-designed wargear 
and the Codex Astartes, there are 
more similarities than differences 


between Space Marine Chapters. 
This is not the case with the Heretic 
Astartes. A dark mirror to their 
Imperial counterparts, Chaos Space 
Marines share the same genetically 
enhanced abilities, but beyond that, 
the ranks of the traitors are more 
greatly varied. The superhuman 
frame of a Space Marine can survive 
more mutations than any other 
mortal could bear. Heretic Astartes 
become marked by mutations, such 


as tentacles or bestial visages. Over 
time, the corruptions grow. Yet time 
moves strangely within regions 
that are awash with the unnatural 
energies of the warp. Those from 
the ranks of the Traitor Legions are 
the same warriors that joined the 
rebellion under Horns all those long 
years ago. After the Warmaster’s 
fall they fled into the Eye of Terror. 
To this day they still continue 
that war... 


'* % ^ 



BLACK LEGION 


The history of the Black Legion resounds with 
the din of both glorious victories and the most 
bitter of defeats. The Black Legion will never 
cease until they succeed where Horus failed. 


1 '> 


The sixteenth of the First Founding Adeptus 
Astartes Legions, they were once called the Luna 
Wolves, before the Emperor renamed them the 
Sons of Horus to honour the accomplishments of 
their Primarch. It was with that title that the Legion 
rebelled, fighting as Horns’ bodyguard during the 
Horus Heresy. After Horus’ defeat, they recovered 
his body from the loyalists and fled into the Eye 
of Terror. There, they feuded with other Traitor 
Legions, eventually losing the Warmaster’s body, 
and were nearly destroyed. Only the matchless 
leadership of Abaddon, who had been Horus’ second 
in command, kept the remnants of the old Legion 
together. It was this new Warmaster’s edict to repaint 
their armour black in eternal memory of the shame 
of their losses. Abaddon directed the newly named 
Black Legion and reclaimed their vaunted reputation 
once again. Since that time, the Black Legion have 
been a scourge on the Imperium, appearing at the 
forefront of Black Crusades where they unite the 
usually anarchic Chaos factions. There are no Heretic 
Astartes more infamous and none are more focussed 
on toppling the Imperium of Man and ripping the 
Corpse-Emperor off his Golden Throne. 


THE LOYAL SLAVE LEARNS TO LOVE THE LASH. 


Mm 


























■ 




o o o tm 


i fa # - 


1M 


The Death Guard were one of the original Legions, but with lies and half-truths Horus 
swayed their Primarch, Mortarion, to his rebellion. The Death Guard would pay a 
nightmarish price for that betrayal, falling under the sway of Nurgle, the Lord of 
Corruption, to become the first of all the Plague Marines. 


Few sights are more loathsome than 
the corrupted forms of the plague- 
infested Death Guard. Their oozing 
power armour has rotted away in 
places, exposing festering wounds 
and pestilence-filled innards - yet 
their bloated bodies do not feel 
the agony of their mutations. If 
anything, these afflictions only 
make them stronger, their necrotic 
bodies so numb to pain that only 
total destruction can stop them. 
Relentlessly they march forward. 


Abominations against nature, the 
Death Guard advance within clouds 
of flies, their weapons spitting 
death, their miasma spreading 
unnatural disease. Truly, Nurgle 
has blessed the Death Guard - their 
flesh bulging with corruption - and 
they wish to share these gifts of 
virulence across the galaxy. 


For a long period after his ascension 
to daemonhood, the Traitor 
Primarch Mortarion allowed his 
Death Guard to fractionalise. 

He was content to rule from his 
throne upon the Plague Planet - a 
Daemon world inside the Eye of 
Terror - only rarely issuing forth. 

In the wake of the Noctis Aeterna, 
however, Mortarion has taken a 
more direct role in leading the 
Death Guard. The time for the 
planting of corruptions had ended, 
and the time for reaping has begun. 


DEATH GUARD 















Remorseless. Cursed. Tragedy and fate 
conspired to drive the most psychically 
gifted of the Space Marine Legions into 
the clutches of Chaos. Thus they became 
an enemy of the Imperium like no other. 


The path of damnation for the Thousand Sons was longer 
than most. One of the original Legiones Astartes, the 
Thousand Sons had many psykers within their ranks - 
hardly surprising as their Primarch, Magnus the Red, 
was a psychic giant. During the Great Crusade, the 
Thousand Sons continued to study arcane lore despite 
the Emperors warnings. They remained loyal, using their 
occult powers to warn the Emperor of Homs’ impending 
betrayal. The Emperor declared the Thousand Sons’ 
arcane arts to be heresy, however, and unleashed the Space 
Wolves upon them. Forced into a war they did not want, 
the Thousand Sons turned to Tzeentch in order to save 
themselves. Escaping certain destruction by fleeing into 
the Eye of Terror, the Legion continued their magical 
studies, although they were soon wracked by mutations. 
Disturbed by their decline, a cabal, led by the sorcerer 
Ahriman, risked the wrath of their Primarch, now risen 
to daemonhood, to cast a spell known as the Rubric. The 
spell placed his kin beyond mutation, but reduced their 
mortal forms to dust sealed inside suits of armour - no 
more than magical automatons. The cabal was banished 
by the enraged Primarch, forced to scatter and fight for 
different Traitor Legions. After an age-long exile, however, 
the Legion has reconciled and reformed. 


PROSPERO 


Prospero was a world of mutants and psykers, 
refugees that chose it as a good place to hide. In the 
end, it was not even that. As their home world was 
devastated by the Space Wolves, Magnus used his 
powers to whisk the last city and his Legion from 
the fiery ruin. He settled in the Eye of Terror upon 
the Planet of Sorcerers, as Tzeentch promised, 
but Magnus vowed one day to return. Prospero 
remained a blasted ruin, declared Purgatus by the 
Inquisition. After long ages, however, Magnus used 
a mighty spell to wrench the Planet of Sorcerers out 
of the Eye of Terror, bringing it to rest next to the 
husk of Prospero. The Space Wolves feel it was this 
unnatural act that precipitated the arrival of the 
Great Rift. 



» -- 

A 

1 ■ 

9 


I 

9 















The traitors of the Horus Heresy were not alone for long, and many have followed their path. The taint of 
Chaos can infect even the strongest mind, and just as Space Marines are above men in strength and skill, 
so do they fall further - becoming mockeries of their former glory. 


Although it is rare for Adeptus 
Astartes to turn from the light 
of the Emperor, over the span of 
thousands of years countless Space 
Marines have done so. Sometimes 
they fall from grace individually, 
or in squads or companies, and 
on very rare occasions, in entire 
Chapters. Freed from the dogma 
of service to their Chapter and 
the Imperium, these individuals 
fully indulge their superhuman 
bodies and prodigious fighting 
skills. Modified to be the ultimate 
warriors, these defectors most 
often gather wealth or power, 
becoming tyrannical leaders of 
pirate fleets, despot warrior kings 
on frontier planets, or the leaders 
of mercenary warbands or cults, 
out to claim their own fortunes. 


As doomed as any traitor from 
the Heresy, these Renegades 
eventually turn to the Chaos Gods, 
sometimes willingly, seeking more 
power, sometimes at desperate 
need. Although none have gained 
the infamy of the Traitor Legions, 
some have carved their names in 
blood across the Imperium. Names 
like the Red Corsairs, the Purge, 
the Invocators and the Crimson 
Slaughter are enough to cause any 
planetary defence force to quake. 
Some Renegades dwell in the Eye of 
Terror, but many more are scattered 
across the galaxy. Some live in 
hidden moon bases and drifting 
space hulks that flit in and out of 
the warp. Some have conquered 
whole worlds to claim as their own, 
or established furtive bases on 


Imperial worlds, hiding beneath 
their enemies’ noses. From these 
sites, the Renegades launch their 
raids - taking what they want for 
their own needs or continuing a war 
of hate against the Imperial whelps 
and their cursed Emperor. Across 
hundreds of worlds, the banners of 
these Renegades are held aloft. 


THOUGHT FOR THE DAY: A SINGLE THOUGHT OF HERESY CAN BLIGHT A LIFETIME OF FAITHFUL DUTY. 








The scourge of Chaos is ever-present. Most potent of 
its embodiments are the Heretic Astartes, hate-fuelled 
traitors from the prehistory of the Imperium; the 
Renegade Chapters, sell-souls who live to pillage and 
destroy; and the cursed Daemon hosts of the warp. 


Lords of Contagion stamp their filthy footprints across the domains of the Imperium, leading corrupted monstrosities in their wake. 













Amongst a stinking miasma of infectious gases, the legions of Nurgle advance with slow but unstoppable momentum. The air 
fills with the drone of bloated flies and chanting Plaguebearers, their vile chorus punctuated by the crash and roar of gunfire. 






‘Be warned! Many are the 
guises of the mutant. They 
may appear to you as a normal 
person but beneath this 
benign countenance may lie a 
wretched and twisted beast. An 
abomination, a witch or worse. 
Mark the beast and expel it, 
it has no place with us!’ 

- Inquisitor Czevak 


The favoured armies of the Chaos God Tzeentch are masters of sorcery. Only the brave or the insane dare to bar their path, for 
the enemies of the Changehosts are horrifically transmuted, twisted in body and soul as they meet truly spectacular deaths. 




jjk 

1 jaPa 

■JLil 








la* 












P 

§Il 



mg jm/ j / 


jgjj'M.gs 

r&g jg Jr 

* 






























With the berserk warriors of Khorne in his wake, the butcher of men known as Kharn the Betrayer has slaughtered his way across the galaxy for 
ten millennia. Only he knows how many hundreds of thousands of skulls his axe has claimed in the name of the Blood God. 


V 

7N' 

r 


t 1 

i 1 



I 

'V 

“ j 









YOU CANNOT SEE THE 
HORRORS THAT LURK IN THE 
NIGHT BUT BE ASSURED THAT 
THEY ARE THERE, WAITING TO 
POUNCE WHEN OUR GUARD IS 
DOWN. BE VIGILANT! TRUST 
YOUR WARGEAR! HAVE FAITH 
IN YOUR MASTER! LET YOUR 
ARMOUR BE HATE! 


A Wrath of Khorne Bloodthirster leaps into the sky in its haste to seek worthy prey. A terrifying incarnation of the Blood God’s 
rage, the very presence of such a monstrosity can sear the mind beyond recovery. 









Though the warbands and warrior servants of Chaos are daunting in their variety, they will put aside all rivalries in pursuit of a 
common cause - usually the pitiless execution of those their eldritch masters deem unfit to live. 


The Iron Warriors are bitter, twisted siege-breakers and warsmiths 
who revel in the thunder of unbound destruction. 


Hopelessly addicted to the mind-numbing clamour and spectacle of 
war, the Emperor’s Children seek excess in the name of Slaanesh. 


1 

X 

i lail 

" ■ 

■ 

1 

l|l 



Lfi®., 




rMlP ' i' : -KEQyP 


fffli 

MM 

ft.*(gj - 

fm 



























Fear the cruel and vindictive Night Lords, for they are masters of 
psychological warfare as well as brute force. 


TheWord Bearers are fervent worshippers of the Dark Gods, their 
unholy zeal driving them to commit ever-greater acts of slaughter. 


^ -Cf. "Y* /C w 











Mankind is not the only race to walk among the stars. Since they first travelled 
beyond the Sol System in the early days of the Age of Technology, Humanity 
has encountered alien races, most of which have proven hostile. 


-- .io&zxm 




ZEAL IS ITS OWN EXCUSE. 


‘THEY CAME FROM 
THE DARK PLACES 
BETWEEN THE STARS, 
FROM THE ABYSS 
INTO WHICH EVEN 
THE EMPEROR’S 
ANGELS FEAR TO 
GAZE. MONSTROUS 
IN FORM, ENDLESS IN 
NUMBER, THE SWARM 
DESCENDED TO 
DEVOUR ALL.’ 

- Anon 


The galaxy is full of creatures, the 
majority of which are capable of great 
acts of destruction. While some xenos 
exist only on a single planet, other 
civilisations might occupy a whole star 
system, and there are a few that are 
widely spread across the galaxy. It has 
never been in Humanity’s nature to share 
worlds with aliens, and bloodshed has 
ever formed the foundation of empires. 
Sometimes, humans and aliens are 
forced to fight over inhabitable planets 
or vital resources; at others, humans 
must do battle with the most dangerous 
types of xenos, whose only aim is to 
eradicate Humanity wherever their paths 
cross. Down the ages, there have been 
innumerable wars against the xenos, 
planet-wide battles of annihilation and 
long campaigns of genocide that have 
stretched over vast distances and eras. 

Many Imperial planets were usurped 
from xenos races long ago, some 
during the initial colonisations of 
the Age of Technology, and now the 
aliens’ very existence on such worlds 
has been forgotten. This explains why 
great monuments of inhuman design 
are occasionally unearthed, strange 
technologies found buried beneath 
levels of stone and metal, crushed down 
beneath long ages of human construction. 
How many xenos species have been 
eradicated is not known. The Lacrymoles 
are gone, the last of their kind wiped 
out, relentlessly ground away before the 
end of the Great Crusade. The same can 
be said of the Vrakk, the Ulumeathic 
League, the Losh, the worm-like Drugh, 
and others beyond count. 

Although many xenos races may have 
been forgotten, the alien peril to the 
Imperium is incessant. Even worlds and 
systems that the Imperium has cleared 
of xenos find that such purges are not an 
ultimate triumph, merely a respite. 


It is never long before those same planets 
are again under threat, whether by the 
returning foe or some new alien species. 
Sojourns into unexplored sectors often 
find thriving colonies, and even nearby 
planets once deemed lifeless become 
infected. Other xenos drift into human 
territory, perhaps expanding their 
own empires, or seeking to escape an 
impending threat. 


Some alien races are ancient beyond 
Mankind’s reckoning, while others are 
nascent powers - newcomers that have 
just learned how to leave their home 
planets. No few xenos species care 
nothing for civilisation or empire, being 
sheer monsters that wish only to prey on 
the unwary. Countless such abominations 
have been encountered and tales of the 
ferocity of creatures like the Donorian 
Clawed Fiend, the crystalline Dracolith, 
the dread Ambull or the Catachan Devil 
have spread across the galaxy. All must be 
fought tooth and nail, for the Imperium 
learned long ago that only the strong 
survive and that no mercy can be found 
amongst the stars. 

Led by the fervour of the Adeptus 
Ministorum, most of Mankind believes 
in the extermination of all xenos, even 
those deemed peaceful. Against such 
foes, vigilance and intolerance can be 
Humanity’s only safeguards. Still, the 
effort to fight xenos drains the Imperium, 
diverting much-needed military strength 
from the battles against the never-ending 
corruptions of Chaos. 


XENDS THREAT 


















THE ALIEN DREAM IS TO DANCE ON THE GRAVE OF MANKIND. 






111 


fZm 












THE AELDARI 


The Aeldari are a space-faring race that ruled the galaxy long before Mankind’s ancestors crawled from 
the Terran seas. It was the pride of their own supremacy that led to their downfall, yet still the elite armies 
of the Aeldari fight on against the upstart races that would reign in their stead. 


The galaxy-spanning Aeldari, 
known to some simply as Eldar, 
are an ancient and enigmatic xenos 
race. One moment they act as an 
ally to Mankind, the next they 
launch inexplicable strikes against 
them. Partly, this confusion arises 
because the Aeldari are splintered 
into factions radically different from 
the each other. The term Aeldari is 
also ancient, used before the Fall to 
describe craftworlders, Harlequins, 
Exodites, Drukhari and Corsairs 
when they were all one, and their 
race ruled the galaxy. They nearly 
went extinct, becoming remnants 
of a shattered civilisation. Although 
only a shadow of their former glory, 
the Aeldari splinter groups are each 
still formidable in their own right. 


All the factions share a confidence 
in the superiority of their wisdom, 
technology and martial prowess, so 
that, as a whole, the Aeldari look 
down on the barbaric usurpers 
that have overrun the galaxy. 

While Aeldari armies and fleets 
are not numerous, they make 
up for this lack of quantity with 
quality, displaying consummate 
skill, wielding advanced wargear, 
and methodically planning 
well-choreographed assaults. 
Interlocking manoeuvres allow 
even small Aeldari armies to strike 
quickly, whittling down more- 
numerous foes with a series of 
rapid, interwoven attacks which 
leave their enemies vulnerable to a 
swift killing blow. 


THE FALL OF THE AELDARI 

The Aeldari themselves never speak of the Fall, as 
they call it, to other races, so it is difficult to get an 
accurate picture of exactly what happened. Rumours 
tell of planets swallowed by the warp, and how the 
darkest Daemons from within the minds of the Aeldari 
overcame them for their arrogant sins. Some say 
that the captive souls of long-dead Aeldari are still 
tormented to this day by their sadistic conquerors. 
Others say the Aeldari received their just punishment 
and it is only a matter of time before the rest succumb 
to whatever dreadful fate destroyed their reign. What 
is indisputable is that the area of the galaxy which was 
once the central region of the ancient Aeldari empire 
became dominated by the Eye of Terror, and that the 
Aeldari are haunted by their past. 
























■■ - rr -1 - 

; I] ttiu JI wai. 4 iH H^-11-iTl ury i»:ri trt I 


fl H ir rmi 111 nft i n i fl w g.T i Tfffli i iffl ifa i 

Li-1 S L 




un r mr igi ijm - t tt m rp rr r^ l . t 


. rfi 'pnjn ! n { itn wffmti pfm 


THE MANY FACES OF THE AELDARI 

The Aeldari are a complex and fractured people, more so than even the 
Mung xenolexicors can comprehend. That said, there are distinct and 
divergent cultures that have spun outwards from the great cataclysm of 
the Aeldari. The most far-sighted sought refuge before the Fall, becoming 
those we call Exodites. As the birth of the Dark Prince came ever closer, 
the ark-like craftworlds took to the void; many survived the apotheosis 
that laid the Aeldari low. Others roam the stars as Corsairs, wanderers 
and Outcasts, or make their lair in dark Commorragh. Amongst them are 
the savage slavers known as Drukhari, the enigmatic Harlequins of the 
Black Library, and the Ynnari, who seek to reclaim the glory of ages past. 

- Obelius Mung the Fourth, Echoes of Paravax 


LEGEND 


L Aeldari 
2* Exodites 
3* ++REDACTED++ 
4* Craftworlders 
5. Corsairs 
6* Outcasts 
7* Drukhari 
8* Harlequins 
9* Ynnari 





































































CRAFTWDRLDS 

Craftworlds are colossal yet graceful vessels of living wraithbone and various psychoactive materials. 
These world-ships were originally created as space-faring arks by those ancient Aeldari who foresaw the 
horrifying fate of their empire and sought to flee far enough to escape the hunger of She Who Thirsts. 

Each of the surviving craftworlds represents but a small 
fragment of Aeldari civilisation. Their inhabitants are the 
guardians of their people’s culture, history, traditions, 
and their dead, and strive to preserve an echo of their 
past greatness. The craftworlds are self-sufficient, able to 
grow organically, and capable of repairing damage. The 
largest and most important of the craftworlds identified 
by the Imperium are Alaitoc, Iyanden, Saim-Hann and 
Ulthwe. There are smaller craftworlds too, including 
the mysterious Black Library, the doomed craftworld 
of Mero, the legendary lost craftworld of Chto, and 
the former craftworld of Biel-Tan, which became a 
fleet-based faction during the awakening of Ynnead. 


Undoubtedly there are others, for the craftworlders are 
isolationists even among their own kind. Aboard their 
world-ships these Aeldari live their lives as they have 
done for millennia, following ascetic Paths to hold off 
the decadence that doomed their forefathers. When 
the shadow of war falls upon them, all citizens will take 
up arms, forming warhosts mighty enough to conquer 
worlds. Craftworlds do not, indeed cannot, use warp 
travel in the same manner as the Imperium. Instead 
the Aeldari use the webway, a labyrinth dimension that 
exists between the warp and realspace. The webway 
leads to many sites across the galaxy, although few of its 
portals are large enough to accommodate craftworlds. 


114 







<•*' 








116 




GRAFTWORLD AELDARI 


The most numerous of the Aeldari are those who live on craftworlds. Since the Fall, these craftworlders 
have been forced to fight for survival, contending with a galaxy that is no longer theirs. They are a proud 
race, determined to see the flame of their kind blaze brightly once more rather than flicker and die out. 


The craftworlds are home to vast 
populations of Aeldari, although 
the majority of them are no longer 
living. Legends tell that at the 
moment of the Fall, the Aeldari 
gods were slain, devoured by 
Slaanesh. The war god, Khaine, 
was torn apart and scattered across 
the galaxy, the fragmented shards 
of his spirit coming to rest deep 
within the hearts of the craftworlds. 
Only Cegorach, the Laughing God, 
escaped. Without the protection of 
their ancestral gods, the souls of all 
Aeldari have since been vulnerable 
to the predations of Slaanesh when 
they die. To stay this terrible fate, 
the craftworld Aeldari wear objects 
known as waystones. These gems 
of psycho-receptive crystal capture 
the wearers essence upon death, 


thereby becoming spirit stones. 
Precious beyond measure, these 
glowing gems are gathered from 
fallen Aeldari and returned to 
their bearers craftworld. There, the 
soul within is transferred into the 
wraithbone skeleton of the ship 
itself. Thus, the Aeldari live on 
even after death as ghostly echoes 
trapped in the shadowy limbo of the 
infinity circuit. At need, Autarchs - 
the war leaders of the Aeldari - can 
call upon ghostly legions of wraith- 
constructs, each one powered by 
a reinterred spirit stone. It is not 
the way Aeldari wish to respect 
their ancestors, but the call of war 
comes too often for them to do 
otherwise. Despite their isolationist 
tendencies, the craftworld Aeldari 
frequently find themselves forced 


to battle simply for their survival. 
Yet they are prepared. In times of 
need, all civilians on a craftworld 
- male and female - don armour 
to fight as Guardians. Dotted 
across every craftworld are warrior 
shrines dedicated to the myriad 
Aspects of Khaine, in which the 
Aeldari’s most elite fighters train 
endlessly to hone their skills to a 
level of perfection beyond human 
ability. Within the Dome of Crystal 
Seers, Farseers - powerful Aeldari 
psykers - commune with the dead, 
searching both the future and the 
past for the best fate-path to follow. 
Most sinister of all is the chamber 
at each craftworld’s heart, where a 
towering statue of iron sits upon a 
giant throne: the Avatar of Khaine, 
awaiting war’s call. 




HAPPINESS IS A DELUSION OF THE WEAK. 




.a- 


I 


3 

















SAIM-HANN - The Wild Host 

Bold. Impetuous. Proud. The warriors of the Saim-Hann craftworld have a fierce 
reputation. So it has always been. One of the first to abandon the Aeldari home 
worlds as the Fall approached, other craftworlds see those of Saim-Hann as 
barbarous and rash, but their bravery is legendary. Like Khaine’s bloody spear, the 
Wild Rider clans of Saim-Hann strike from above, the gre.aterpart of their warriors 
mounted upon jetbikes or taking to the skies ip* grav-tanks. In streaks of crimson 
the Wild Host attacks with blurring swiftness, true masters of hit-and-run tactics. 


5 



IYANDEN - The Ghost Warriors 

Iyanden was once among the most populous of the craftworlds until it was targeted 
by a tendril of the Tyranid Hive Fleet Kraken. Only the return of the exiled Prince 
Yriehand his Corsair fleet saved the craftworld from being completely annihilated. 
The craftworld cannot recover its losses and many Iyanden Seers believe extinction 
looms. Their rapid decline has led the Iyanden Aeldari to a reliance upon 
wraithbone constructs to form the backbone of their armies, as well as an unusual 
number of Spiritseers - warrior mystics skilled at communicating with the dead. 


ULTHWE - The Damned 

Craftworld Ulthwe sails clos^ to the Eye of Terror, an inescapable reminder of the 
Fall and the doom that eagerly lusts after them. It is this memory that drives the 
Aeldari of Ulthwe in their war against Chaos, a fight not just for an ideal, but for 
their continued existence - and perhaps even that of the galaxy. Home to many 
powerful psykers, Ulthwe relies upon its Seer Councils more than any other 
craftworld. Using runes to see the strands of fate as' they form the future, Farseers 
have led the Black Guardians of Ulthwe to many seemingly impossible victories. 




¥ 


BIEL-TAN - TheSwordwind 

The Fracture of Biel-Tan was a traumatic event that shook the galaxy. During the 
split, Biel-Tan was broken into fragment vessels, leaving the husk of the craftworld, 
and its infinity circuit, in ruin. This released enough death energy to bring Ynnead, 
the Aeldari god of the dead, into being, stymieing Slaanesh’s plans. The surviving 
members of the Biel-Tan warhost, the Swordwind, have resolved to maintain the 
warlike traditions of their craftworld, and they have since vanished into the webway 
to continue to scour ancient Aeldari worlds of alien usurpers. 


ALAITOG - The Starstriders 

The Aeldari of Alaitoc puritanically adhere to the Aeldari Paths. A side effect of this 
zeal has led to many becoming Outcasts. These nomadic individuals are still loyal 
to their kin, however, and some become space-faring Corsairs, bolstering Alaitoc’s 
navy in times of war. Others choose the way of the Ranger, acting as the craftworld’s 
eyes and ears in the galaxy. Some trapped upon the Path of the Outcast become 
Pathfinders, supernaturally adept at concealment and ambushes. Many foes have 
likened a fight versus these elusive wanderers to hunting phantoms. 


117 




DRUKHARI 

Where the Aeldari aboard the craftworlds attempt to overcome the anguish of their past with inhuman 
discipline and rigid self-control, their dark kin have gone the opposite way. The Drukhari have become an 
indulgent race of vicious killers, whose existence depends upon the pain and suffering that they inflict. 


Nestled far from prying eyes, 
the vile and sadistic city of 
Commorragh was once a grand 
nexus point within the labyrinthine 
dimensions of the webway. Before 
the Fall of the Aeldari, the hidden 
destination was renowned for its 
depravity, especially in the right 
circles of the cults of excess, for 
it served well those who wished 
for privacy. Shielded from the raw 
power of Chaos and the psychic 
backlash unleashed upon the 
galaxy during the Fall, those in 
Commorragh were not slain like 
so many of their kin. From their 
safe haven, the depravity of these 
Aeldari grew, until the city was a 
monstrous den of absolute villainy. 
It was this Dark City that was the 


birthplace of the race that later 
came to be known as Drukhari, or 
Dark Eldar, the corrupt cousins that 
splintered from the Aeldari. 

Hidden within the webway, the 
Drukhari were largely immune 
to the passage of time, with the 
exception that their souls began to 
wither. Their only counter to this 
gradual loss was to refill that void 
by steeping themselves in extreme 
sensations and outrageous evils. 

The agony and suffering of others 
replenishes them, granting them 
an unholy vitality and vigour. In 
order to exist, the Drukhari must 
have a constant supply of living 
beings on which to practise their 
foul crafts. To fulfil such needs, 


they have become masters of the 
lightning raid - darting attacks that 
eliminate all resistance, allowing 
the victors ample time to gather up 
the spoils. While not above taking 
technology and material goods, it 
is live captives that the Drukhari 
seek above all. The mortal creatures 
taken into captivity suffer a terrible 
and often prolonged fate in order to 
satiate their loathsome captors. To 
launch their assaults, the Drukhari 
travel using the webway, moving 
unseen across the galaxy where 
no space fleet, patrol, or listening 
station can detect them. And no 
matter how many captives they 
take, their needs soon require more. 
Many are the armies that leave 
Commorragh every day... 


KABALS 


The Kabals of Commorragh are the black heart 
of most Drukhari armies. They are autonomous 
organisations somewhere between criminal cartels, 
pirate fraternities and noble households. 

When the Kabals strike, they do so in rapid fashion. With 
no warning, they darken the skies, hurtling downwards 
upon razor-edged anti-gravity craft. Led by Archons, the 
hallmark of a Kabalite raid is a combination of speed and 
firepower, applied in precision assaults. There are some, 
however, who prefer to feel the splash of blood that only 
close combat can offer. Although often set at each others 
throats, the Kabals are largely responsible for the flow of 
slaves into Commorragh - and so temporary alliances are 
common, as all Drukhari rely upon the supply of soul- 
stuff that such captives provide. 



118 







HAEMONCULUS COVENS 


Beneath the Dark City lurk the terrifying beings known 
as Haemonculi. Masters of the flesh, be it alive or dead, 
the Haemonculus Covens are universally feared. 


The Haemonculi have the power to bestow - or withhold - life 
after death. Using the power of pain to rejuvenate the fallen, 
Haemonculi ensure that those Drukhari that can afford their 
services are nearly deathless. In war, the Haemonculus Covens 
lead forth disturbing armies - Engines of Pain drift between 
iron-masked Wracks and Grotesques as they hack and carve 
the enemy’s soldiery to ruin, glorying in the unreasoning 
terror they spread. The gruesome weapons of the Haemonculi 
torment, rupture and liquefy their foes in spectacular fashion. 
And when all the defenders have been slain, the Covens 
gather up the choicest survivors and slink back to the shadowy 
underhalls beneath the Dark City. 


WYCH CULTS r 


Because of their unending need to bathe in murderous -J 


sensations, the Drukhari have evolved Wych Cults - 


gladiatorial sisterhoods that provide maximum carnage. 

. / 


Each Wych Cult is a thousands-strong organisation of 

gladiators that put on nightly displays of incredible violence 

to edify and sustain the masses. Yet the martial acrobatics of f 

the Wych Cults are not confined to arenas alone. These trained a 


killers relish the thought of proving their deadly superiority 

to lesser races in war, often competing amongst themselves to 

take trophies in the most gruesome fashion possible. Led to 

war by a Succubus, Wyches twirl, spin, and slice a deadly path Ji 

through any foe. Beastmasters drive bloodthirsty creatures into 

the mayhem, while some Cults add flying support in the form 


of Hellions and Reavers. JM ' ^ 

■ r \ / 




















Cegorach, known as the Laughing God, or the Great 
Harlequin, escaped the clutches of Slaanesh and fled 
into the webway. He dwells there still, always one step 
ahead of his ancient nemesis. 


■~<E— 


HARLEQUINS 


One of the strangest of all the splinter groups of the Aeldari are 
the Harlequins. These lightning-fast warrior acrobats make no 
distinction between war and theatrical art. 


Since the Fall, the Harlequins have waged a clandestine war against She 
Who Thirsts. In the name of Cegorach, the Laughing God whom they 
worship, the Harlequins travel the secret paths of the webway, emerging 
with no warning to combat Chaos. Alongside death-dealing, the Harlequins 
possess another, ritual duty: they journey between the realms of their 
divided kin - craftworlds, Exodite worlds, Corsair fleets and the Dark City 
of Commorragh - performing the dances and plays of the Aeldari mythic 
cycle. These performances are not so different from their war manoeuvres, 
for the colourfully costumed Harlequins flow and twist through battle 
like silk streamers in a hurricane. A Troupe Master choreographs 
the carnage, directing the Harlequins in spinning, graceful ballets 
of death. Supported by jetbikes and streaking gunships, the 
Troupes move in blinding blurs. Then, in a multicoloured flash, 
the Harlequins are gone, leaving only death in their wake. 




S 

o 


i 


. 




















YNNARI 


As the strength of Chaos increases across the galaxy, a new faction 
of Aeldari has risen. These Ynnari, also known as the Pathless or 
Reborn, have found a way to defeat Chaos and revenge themselves 
upon Slaanesh. Or so they claim. 


The Ynnari are the disciples of Ynnead, the Aeldari god of the dead. They 
have learned the secrets of absorbing the souls of the deceased, bringing 
them closer to their ancestors and the ways of the Aeldari before the Fall. 
The Ynnari gain the knowledge of those souls they have taken, and have 
travelled across the galaxy attempting to recruit others of their race. On 
every craftworld some have turned to Ynnead’s cause, but not all agree, and 
many see the Ynnari as fiendish or already themselves dead. Ironically, in 
attempting to unify the Aeldari, the Ynnari have instead polarised them, 
making the race more splintered than ever, despite their continued efforts 
to the contrary. And wherever the Reborn travel, trouble follows. Internal 
clashes between disputing factions have been inevitable, and the forces of 
Chaos are never far behind. Slaanesh especially covets the Ynnari, for each is 
a walking hoard of souls, a treasure of delectables for the Chaos God. 


THE RUNES ARE CAST 

It is the Ynnari’s plan to fulfil ancient prophecies of 
Slaanesh’s defeat by dying. However, their version 
of the prophecy does not involve their race’s 
extinction. Instead, by absorbing the souls of dead 
Aeldari themselves, the Reborn intend to starve 
She Who Thirsts out of existence. It promises to 
be a lengthy battle, but Ynnead is eternally patient. 
The god’s agents are not, however. Members of 
every Aeldari faction have joined the Ynnari, but 
more stand opposed. Amongst the Drukhari, the 
Haemonculus Covens refuse their vision, desiring 
the souls of the dead for themselves. The gladiatorial 
champion Lelith Hesperax has joined the Reborn, 
along with many of the Wych Cults, while the 
Kabalites’ reactions to Ynnead’s disciples are varied. 
Harlequins, naturally, fight on both sides. 
















NEGRONS 


After aeons of slumber, the Necrons have begun to 
waken. Rising from their stasis tombs, the Necrons 
have returned to complete their terrible purpose. 

Long ago the Necrontyr forsook mortal flesh for bodies 
of near-impervious metal. When their dreams of galactic 
conquest soured, they sealed themselves inside hidden tomb 
worlds, awaiting a new age. So long did the Necrons slumber 
that the galaxy all but forgot their existence. Even in the 
minds of the Aeldari, who once strove against the Necrons 
for mastery of the stars, did their memory grow dim. The 
cold-hearted Necron Overlords and their implacable legions 
awakened to find their once great empire in decay and 
primitive life forms squatting in their ancient domains. They 
were not impressed. No longer creatures of flesh and blood, 
Necrons are androids that can survive crippling damage. 
Once rent, the metal from which they are formed flows back 
together, and severed limbs scrabble to reattach themselves. 
Should irreparable damage occur, the Necron ‘phases out’, 
its body and consciousness teleported back to the nearest 
tomb-complex to remain in storage until a new shell can be 
forged. The technologies by which this is accomplished are 
a mystery, and many contingencies, including self-destruct 
mechanisms, prevent that knowledge from falling into the 
covetous hands of lesser races. While their technology is 
beyond the grasp of human understanding, the Necrons’ 
purpose seems brutally clear: they seek to cleanse the galaxy 
of upstart primitives and re-establish themselves as rulers. 




NECRONS AT WAR 

From vast crypt-fortresses, the burnished legions 
emerge into the dying light of a war-torn galaxy. The 
Necrons are an implacable foe, a steel sea that ripples 
with the crackling energy discharge of their gauss 
weaponry. Remorselessly they advance, unleashing 
precision volleys while remaining virtually impervious 
to return fire. Even those that fall rise again to join 
the silent march. Amidst the phalanxes drift giant 
mechanoid arachnids and vehicles of strange, macabre 
design. Canoptek Scarabs - metal insects that phase 
in and out of reality - descend in great swarms, while 
talon-limbed horrors and spectral assassins emerge 
from the shadows. Looming over all are the Monoliths, 
Obelisks and Tesseract Vaults, great floating engines 
of destruction. Even the shards of old star gods, the 
C’tan, now serve the Necrons. Beneath the direction of 
their Overlords, the Necrons remain single-mindedly 
focussed on one purpose - to reclaim the stars. 


122 




SAUTEKH DYNASTY 


There are many dynasties of Necrons, some of which 
have not yet reawoken. The greatest of the arisen Necron 
empires is that of the Sautekh Dynasty. They are led by 
Imotekh the Stormlord, a peerless warrior and pitiless 
commander. Beneath his tactical mastery, the Sautekh 
legions have mercilessly carved themselves a new empire. 
Under Imotekh’s aggressive strategies, his dynasty has 
reclaimed dozens of systems and united many disparate 
Necron worlds under its glorious banner. The crownworld 
- the phaeron’s seat of power - is Mandragora, on the 
Eastern Fringe. It has always been Imotekh’s wish to 
reunite all tomb worlds beneath his rule and nothing can 
deter his plans, not even rampant Daemon incursions. 

As the Great Rift opened, the Stormlord launched his 
Absorption Wars, a many-pronged campaign to seize 
dozens of tomb worlds awakened by the warp influx. 
Imotekh sought to conquer them before they could fully 
rise from their stasis slumber, ensuring the continued rise 
of the Sautekh. 









S£*7 


FEAR THE ENEMY BEYOND! 


o 


DYNASTIES 

For millennia, the Necron dynasties ruled the galaxy. Time and the Great Sleep, however, have taken 
an inevitable toll. Those dynasties that have managed to wake seek a new age of Necron domination. 


Mephrit 

The star-killers. Exotic 
energies are boldly 
displayed by the ranks 
of the soldiery of the 
Mephrit Dynasty. The 
captive light of suns 
burns within all of the 
weapons they unleash 
upon their foes. 


Nihilakh 

In times of antiquity, this 
dynasty built treasure 
worlds filled with 
wealth plundered from 
a thousand civilisations. 
Regal in war, the 
warriors of Nihilakh 
wear turquoise and gold 
as their dynastic colours. 


Novokh 

The crimson armour of 
Novokh is a legacy of 
many bloody victories. 
The dynasty’s symbol 
reflects the core system 
cluster of their territory 
and the six wars of 
conquest that spread out 
from its heart. 


Charnovokh 

Ravaged by Tyranid hive 
fleets and with their 
tomb worlds defiled 
by the Imperium, the 
legions of Charnovokh 
cling defiantly to the 
edges of the Eastern 
Fringe, their dynasty 
hanging in the balance. 


NECRON WARGEAR 


Necron technology is even less fathomable to Imperial Tech-Priests than the wonders wrought by the Aeldari. 
Gauss weapons are the most commonly carried weapon of the Necron soldiery. Unlike conventional Imperial 
energy weapons, a gauss projector does not deliver a laser burst or bolt of force, but instead emits a molecular 
disassembling beam capable of reducing flesh or armour to its constituent atoms. Other examples of Necron 
war-tech - quantum shielding, tesla and particle weaponry - are equally inexplicable in their operation. 




































i 


Ml a icmpgfr* #< 1 ' 


Kp4 









■ 


I 

i 


DRKS 

Over the long millennia the Orks have proven to be the most prolific and frequent threat to the Imperium. 
They can be found in warbands, clans and tribes spread across countless planets and space-borne fleets, 
sometimes even forming their own volatile empires. 



Orks are a barbaric xenos race 
that infests the galaxy. No matter 
how far Mankind has travelled, 
they have found that Orks are 
either already there waiting for 
them or arrive soon after to launch 
their characteristically crude but 
devastating attacks. Orks are brutal, 
green-skinned creatures that revel 
in violence. So great is their need 
for conflict that, without a more 
obvious opponent with whom to 
do battle, the Orks will gladly fight 
amongst themselves. Their species 


is so numerous that, if the disparate 
groups were ever to cease hostilities 
with their own kind, the Orks would 
swiftly overrun the galaxy. 

Size dominates Ork society, and the 
largest of their kind invariably lead 
them. On occasion, an especially 
hulking Ork Warboss will conquer 
several rival groups, forming the 
survivors into a massive army. What 
follows is known as a Waaagh! - 
part invasion and part holy war. 
During a Waaagh!, the greenskins 


will continue to flock to the leader’s 
banner so long as they have 
something to conquer. Each new 
victory calls yet more greenskins 
from the surrounding region to join. 
A powerful Ork can lead a Waaagh! 
for a while, but to string together 
many victories and keep finding 
worthy targets to occupy the hordes 
takes an Ork with extreme cunning. 
Luckily, the combination of brawn 
and brains is rare in Orks, although 
when such a leader rises, the whole 
galaxy trembles. 



















avfe^'fBr? 


THE CLANS 


GOFFS 


Orks of the Goff Clan are traditionalists in the greenskin fashion. They 
respect violence, especially at close quarters, and do not care for any 
frills or flash. Goff warbands are infantry-minded, and view other 
clans as soft. They dress predominantly in black decorated with dags or 
checks, and think camouflage fit only for cowards. Why hide from a foe? 




BAD MOONS 


The richest of the Ork clans, the Bad Moons are known for having 
the best gear of war. Bad Moons Nobz tote gaudy back-banners and 
massive, kustomised weapons, and are followed around by mobs of 
scurrying grot servants. If it is loud and flashy, the ostentatious Bad 
Moons want it - they bristle with gold-plated firepower and shiny flair. 


DEATHSKULLS 


Plunderers without equal, the Deathskulls are noted for their ability to 
scrounge. They’ll fight whole wars just so they can strip the battlefield 
clean. The salvage is then beaten into (or out of) shape by Meks, 
who then cobble it back together to create deadly new weaponry. A 
superstitious lot, Deathskulls believe blue is a lucky colour. 




EVIL SUNZ 


Orks belonging to the Evil Sunz Clan are irresistibly attracted to every 
conceivable kind of fast vehicle. Warbike mobs are especially popular, 
as are jetcraft pilots and super-charged Trukk crews. Evil Sunz wear red 
armour and often paint their machines red too, firmly believing in the 
old Ork adage that ‘red ones go fasta’. 


BLOOD AXES 


Because of their habits of trading for Imperial wargear, wearing 
camouflage and using battle tactics, other Orks often distrust the 
Blood Axes. To add further contention, this clan favours the use of 
Kommandos, elite fighters that use dirty tricks like sneaking up on foes. 
Blood Axes ignore this derision, caring only for victory. 




SNAKEBITES 


Those Orks in the Snakebites Clan scorn technology, preferring ‘da 
old ways’. Other clans consider them backward, but despite their feral, 
warpaint-wearing ways, the ferocity of the Snakebites’ assaults is second 
to none. No clan breeds more dangerous squigs or grots than the 
Snakebites, and their camps teem with such creatures. 






6 


POWER RESIDES IN THE WILL OF THE RIGHTEOUS. 


127 



























































/ ^ i 

>1 

r> o 

L ik . MX 



V 






ODDBOYZ 


PAINBOYZ 

Part doctor, part dentist and part butcher, Painboyz are driven to 
perform exploratory surgery on living creatures. Sometimes they 
even do such operations when it is required. It is the Painboyz that 
‘fix injuries to fellow greenskins (who luckily are quite hardy). The 
‘Doks, as they are also referred to, are often called upon to fuse the 
mechanical contraptions made by Mekboyz onto Orks. They work 
with a range of pincers, ‘stabby bits’, crude sawing instruments 
and rusty syringes that work as well in close combat as they do in 
operations. Indeed, most often it is all one and the same. 


WEIRDBOYZ 

The most deranged of all the greenskins are the Weirdboyz. These 
Orks are the most psychically attuned of their kind, and can 
absorb the wild mental energies of nearby Orks. They must find 
ways (often quite quickly) to vent the build-up of these volatile 
forces, resulting in Weirdboyz vomiting dangerous blasts of warp 
energy. It is on the battlefield where Ork emotions run highest, 
meaning Weirdboyz dragged to battle become infused with power 
of titanic proportions. If they can remain coherent (or are pointed 
in the right direction by their minders) this energy is unleashed 
upon the foe, bursting them apart. 


MEKBOYZ 

Ork Mekboyz inherently know how to 
fix all things mechanical using only the 
crudest of tools, a few well-placed kicks, 
and occasionally some mad gubbinz of 
their own invention. They are tinkerers 
extraordinaire, and they use a method of 
jury-rigging that is impossible for non- 
Orks to decipher. Rarely are inventions, 
war machines, or ramshackle vehicles 
built the same way twice. They go to war 
clanking with contraptions thought up 
by the Mekboyz - extra-shooty weapons, 
kustom force fields, or even the bizarre 
teleportation weapon known as the 
shokk attack gun. 






























ORK WEAPONS OF WAR 


Orks are not subtle, and 
nowhere is this more apparent 
than upon the battlefield. Ork 
weaponry is loud, large-calibre, 
and prone to belching fire and 
smoke. If several barrels and 
a spare rokkit can be welded 
together, so much the better. 
Aiming is not a priority, but 
massive firepower and loud 
explosions most certainly are. 


Shoota 


Choppa 


Power klaw 


Rokkit launcha 


Big shoota 


Big choppa 


Boom bomb 


Bomb squig 


Shokk attack gun 


DEATH AND DUTY ARE ALL WE MUST GIVE. 











































mmm 


o 


T’flU EMPIRE 

The Tau are an alien race that seeks to carve an empire into the havoc-filled Eastern Fringe. They mean to 
bring a new and enlightened way to a barbaric and unordered universe. Many races have already joined 
their cause and, in time, even those that resist are shown the benefits of TauVa - the Greater Good. 


I 


On the Eastern Fringe of the galaxy, a new empire is 
growing. Ambitious and united in purpose, the xenos 
race known as the T’au has spread its ‘enlightenment’ 
across the stars. Although barely registering as a blip 
against the size of the sprawling Imperium, the rapid 
expansion of the T’au has drawn a predictably brutal 
response from the High Lords of Terra. As the T’au 
encroached on Imperial territory, several vast crusades 
were sent to halt the aggressive xenos colonisation. 
After purging the T’au colonies nearest their worlds, 
the Imperial forces crossed the Damocles Gulf, a 
space anomaly that had long formed a barrier to T’au 
expansion, to confront their foes. The relentless T’au, 
however, surprised the Imperial commanders with the 
strength of their defence, forcing a retreat. The T’au 
are a practical people, devoid of religion or psychic 
ability. Instead, they adhere to a rigid caste system, 
with each of the five castes (Fire, Earth, Air, Water and 
Ethereal) forming a subspecies within the race. Such 
segregation provides the clarity of purpose that allows 


*irm 


each member to fulfil their role within society - be it 
warrior, worker, pilot, or bureaucrat. The members of 
the ruling caste, the Ethereals, bind the other castes 
towards a common goal. It is they who steer the course 
of the T’au expansions, deciding which planets will be 
colonised, which aliens will be absorbed and which will 
be eliminated. Unlike the Imperium, the T’au attempt 
to sway other cultures, using diplomatic ploys to show 
the plentiful benefits of the Greater Good. Those who 
refuse to join the growing T’au Empire are quickly 
shown the error of their ignorance. The T’au military 
is fast, flexible, and well equipped with technologically 
advanced weaponry and agile battlesuits. With their 
organised methods of war and sophisticated weaponry, 
the T’au believe there is no foe they cannot defeat. Many 
aliens have already been conquered, and some, like the 
carnivorous Kroot and the insectoid Vespid, have been 
so enlightened they now send troops to assist further 
T’au expansions. The T’au hope to bring a progressive 
new age of light to the dark and savage galaxy. 



TO SEARCH FOR ANSWERS IS TO BEAT A PATH TO DAMNATION. 















‘Our conquest is 
inevitable, our ascension 
a matter of time. Let 
none who are wise deny 
our destiny.’ 

- Aun’Va, Ethereal Supreme 














tau 

EMPIRE 


CHARADON, 

SECTOR 


VENGEANCE 


THE YMGA MONOLITH 


SCHINDELGHEIST 


NECRON 

SAUTEKH DYNASTY 


THE SCOURGE STARS 


ICHARIV 


BLACK REACH 


SPHERES OF EXPANSION 




The T’au Empire launched a new venture - the Fifth Sphere Expansion - as soon as the warp storms 
dissipated along the Eastern Fringe enough to allow such a thing. This endeavour followed hard on 
the heels of the ill-fated Fourth Sphere Expansion, which was lost at the time of the Great Rift. 


CONTINUOUS 

ADVANCEMENT 

Unlike the Imperium of Mankind, 
the T’au Empire embraces new 
technology. Developed by the Earth 
caste, the Fire caste are supplied 
with advanced wargear, often further 
augmented with special-issue 
prototype weapons. T’au pulse, ion, 
and rail weapon technologies give 
their warriors a firepower advantage, 
both in terms of range and hitting 
power. All who choose to oppose 
the Greater Good learn to fear the 
deadly efficiencies of such weapons. 


The T’au are a dynamic race that have 
grown an empire in a relatively short time 
period. Their history - though merely a 
blink compared to that of the Imperium 
- has been marked by relentless 
colonisation efforts, known to them as 
spheres of expansion. Each of these 
great pushes ripples outwards 
from their core worlds, known 
as sept worlds, to colonise 
new systems. They conquer 
through trade and coercion, 
their battle-honed 
military always ready 
to step in as the final 
negotiators. The First 
Sphere Expansion 
ended when the T’au 
reached the limits of their 
ability to traverse space. 

Being a non-psychic race, the 
T’au have no understanding 
of the warp, so their star fleets 
travel at sub-light speeds. New 
technological innovations have 
steadily increased their range, allowing 
them to press ever further into the 
galaxy. Their Second and Third Spheres 
of Expansion were halted only due to 
the barrier of the Damocles Gulf and 
increased resistance from the Imperium 
of Mankind. 


TEMPORARY 
RIFT CORRIDOR , \ 


HADEX ANOMALY 




U MACRAGGE 


ULTRAMAR 

SUB-SECTOR 



134 


BE STRONG IN YOUR IGNORANCE. 


rtiE £a STERn fringe . 

















































Of} Q ' $ MTV? 


o 


o 



Vior’la Sept 

One of the major first-phase 
septs, Vior’la is best known for its 
aggressive Fire Warriors. 


Tau Sept 

Home world of the T’au, this sept 
remains the capital and is the 
political centre of the T’au Empire. 


Sa’cea Sept 

Sa’cea is the most densely 
populated sept world. Its warriors 
are experts in urban warfare. 


T’AU BATTLESUITS 

At the apex of the advanced weaponry designed by the 
T’au are their battlesuits. Equipped with a wide variety 
of deadly weapon loadouts, the battlesuits combine 
offensive capability, armoured protection, and high 
manoeuvrability. Some bear repulsor jet engines 
granting them the ability to strike anywhere on 
a battlefield. Piloting such a battlesuit is 
the greatest honour for a Fire caste 
warrior, and before they are 

allowed to do so they must V * 

pass many trials. 




REASON IS THE CLOAK OF TRAITORS. 


135 





















TYRANID HIVE FLEETS 

Driven by an insatiable hunger, they come from beyond. They are drawn to galaxies teeming with life like 
predators on a blood scent. In their wake, they leave nothing behind. They are the Great Devourer, the 
Tyranids - a xenos race that seeks to strip down and absorb all living matter they come into contact with. 


Beyond the edges of the Imperium 
lies the unspeakabletcold of the 
intergalactic void. It is the great 
barrier that divides galaxy from 
galaxy, where grand vistas of space 
conspire to hold their secrets with 
inconceivable distances. Yet the 
void is not empty. An immeasurably 
ancient and exceedingly alien 
intelligence has emerged from that 
darkness, its many eyes drawn 
towards the bountiful lifeforms of 
the galaxy. From the void come 
the hive fleets, stretching out like 
impossibly vast tendrils, drifting 
in brooding silence. Once the 
remorseless shoals of the bio-ships 
detect a prey world, they close upon 
their target. There is no escape. 
When the Tyranids depart, they 
leave behind a barren rock scoured 
of anything that lives. 

The Tyranid race comprises many 
different creatures all functioning 
as one, coordinated by the gestalt 


consciousness that is the Hive 
Mind. Each creature is linked by 
that monolithic sentience. On the 
battlefield, leader creatures serve 
as hubs to channel connections to 
the lesser swarms, synchronising 
their movements. It is this central 
intelligence that guides the Tyranid 
fleets towards prey planets, but it 
does more. So powerful are the 
emanations from the Hive Mind 
that they are accompanied by a 
smothering psychic phenomenon 
known to the Imperium’s Astropaths 
as the Shadow in the warp. It is 
as if the darkness of the void is 
actively isolating worlds about 
to be consumed. The sight of an 
oncoming Tyranid invasion is 
one that few have witnessed and 
survived. Gigantic spores plummet 
down, splitting open to reveal 
broods of ferocious beasts. Swarms 
of scythe-limbed aliens move across 
the ground as one. Some carry 
grotesque living weapons capable of 


firing parasitic projectiles that chew 
into their targets’ flesh. Stalker- 
organisms use perfect camouflage to 
ambush prey, winged monstrosities 
rain death, and the ground quakes 
as burrowing beasts tunnel up 
from below. Above all, towering 
behemoths stride upon multiple 
sets of legs unleashing bio-cannon 
blasts. Every Tyranid creature is a 
perfectly evolved killing machine, 
adapted for its role. Thus far, only 
their vanguard has reached the 
galaxy - the greater mass is still on 
its way. 




TESLA PRIME 


fEM W-ELE E T 


ANEW 

MENACE 

As the years pass, more Tyranid 
threats continue to enter the 
war-torn galaxy. Hive Fleets 
Hydra, Scylla, Charybdis and 
Kronus have thrust tendrils from 
out of the intergalactic void. 
Strangely, the initial invasions 
of Hydra seem to have bypassed 
other, more likely targets, instead 
seeking out splinters of previous 
Tyranid invasions in order to 
cannibalise them. Why the 
hive fleet would be adding to 
its growing biomass in this way 
remains a mystery. 


NEPHILIM 

SECTOR 


SIREN’S STORM 


ALEUSIS 


KM^Mtarsis ultra 


AGRAX 


BAKKA 


GRYPHQNNE IV 

R9 


FORGIVENESS IS A SIGN OF WEAKNESS. 
























I 


GENESTEALER GULTS 

Insidious. Infectious. Hidden from sight, and walking openly, the Genestealer Cults have grown. They 
have spread their xenos corruption throughout the underbelly of the Imperium. They are patient, they 
bide their time - but when the moment is right, the uprising is as swift as it is merciless. 


Sent out on seeding imperatives, Genestealers haunt 
space hulks, clamber aboard shuttles, and secrete 
themselves beneath the shadowy bulkheads of 
enormous starships. Many a crammed transport has 
unknowingly carried such lethal cargo, and in their 
hibernatory state, a Genestealer can even survive 
the cold vacuum of outer space. When a Genestealer 
reaches a world ripe for infection, it unfolds and begins 
its deadly work. Genestealers prefer heavily populated 
planets, especially hive worlds, where they can go into 
hiding, emerging from dark sewers to attack one human 
at a time. They do not kill, but implant a portion of 
their own biomass into their chosen host like a virus, 
turning them into xenos-worshipping followers. Soon, 
hybrids follow, monstrous crosses between Genestealers 


and humankind. So the cult grows. In the final stages, 
some hybrids - known as Neophytes - are merely 
pallid and bald, passing easily through the unhealthily 
overcrowded confines of their hive like wolves in sheep’s 
clothing. Only when the brotherhood is strong enough 
do they strike. On the day of the great insurrection, 
secrecy is cast aside and the cult banners are lifted high. 
Surging from ambush, the Genestealer Cult attacks 
- inhumanly strong Aberrants, swarms of weapon¬ 
bearing Acolytes, and scuttling Purestrain Genestealers. 
Genestealer Cultists also usurp tanks and armoured 
vehicles to use against the foe. They are all led by the 
Genestealer Patriarch - the creature who started it all, 
since grown to gargantuan size and power. The slaughter 
that ensues is dreadful to behold. 
















5 0 0 0 


j v 





SYMBOLS OF THE CULT UPRISINGS 


Though only a handful of cults have been codified by the Ordo Xenos, data-harvests taken from Ghosar 
Quintus imply the presence of hundreds, perhaps thousands, in Ultima Segmentum alone. Each cult identifies 
its members by secret colours and hidden tattoos. By the time the cult banners are revealed, it is already too late. 















From the lithe and deadly Aeldari to the ancient terror of the 
Necrons, from the technological supremacy of the Tau to 
the blade-limbed swarms of the Tyranids and the ramshackle 
savagery of the Orks, the xenos races of the Warhammer 40,000 
galaxy are diverse and spectacular. 


ALIEN MENAGE 


Yvraine, leader of the Ynnari 


TheVisarch 








Combining the unparalleled discipline of the craftworld Aeldari with the depthless cruelty of the Drukhari, Ynnari warhosts 
bring the full fury of their ancient race to bear against their foes. 









‘Trust not in their appearance, 
for the Eldar are as alien to good, 
honest men as the vile Tyranids 
and savage Orks. There is no 
understanding them because 
there is nothing to understand 
- they are a random force in the 
universe. ’ 


Imperial Commander, 
Abriel Hume 


Eldrad Ulthran is amongst the greatest of his race’s ancient Farseers. At the head of the warhosts of Ulthwe, this prescient 
arch-manipulator seeks to turn back the looming darkness and save his people from their final end. 






















The Wild Rider clans of Saim-Hann swoop into battle on skimming jetbikes, supported by squadrons of swift grav-tanks and agile 
combat aircraft. Speed and ferocity are their primary weapons, and they wield them with expert skill. 





r\ - * ' ii 

i 


-'V' 










Though they have common origins, the Aeldari of the craftworlds and those of Commorragh are still splintered parts of a 
once-great whole, and their irreconcilable differences often bring them into conflict with one another. 
















The Archons rule over the Drukhari Kabals, basking in the fear and 
pain of their unfortunate victims. 


Monstrous and deformed, the warriors of the Haemonculus Covens 
are stitch-fleshed horrors from a madman’s nightmare. 











The soulless legions of the Nihilakh Dynasty advance towards the beleaguered Imperial lines, unleashing ancient weapons of 
incredible power designed to scour the lesser races from existence. 


* 

mil 

niij 


999Q i 
9990 / 


Commander Farsight is one of the greatest T’au war 
heroes who has ever lived. He is also hunted as a rebel 
by his own people. 




Wf | 

mpM 

MV,; 

p 1 

■ft .>1 •• 

i i 




Rf / j 

It' 

I L 


» hmUw_^3S~ 



-M 





I'&L 

j i 

^7/1 | ' . . B 



s&.-r 

‘,TIJ 






























Trazyn the Infinite is both a powerful war leader 
and an obsessive collector of esoteric weaponry 
and living curios. 












The Fire caste are the warriors of the T’au Empire, fighting in close-knit infantry teams or piloting armoured battlesuits 
that possess the firepower to obliterate armies wholesale. The white-armoured warriors of Vior’la Sept are known for being 
especially hot-blooded examples of their already warlike caste. 















Attacking in overwhelming waves of chitinous war-beasts, Hive Fleet Kraken seeks to bury the courageous T’au Fire Warriors in 

seething masses of slashing, biting monstrosities. 


All-consuming tides of bio-engineered killing machines, the Tyranid hive fleets devour everything in their path and leave only death in their 
wake. Hive Fleet Leviathan is one of the most recent of these apocalyptically destructive swarms. 








Upon the war-ravaged world of Armageddon, endless hordes of Orks followed Ghazghkull Thrakainto battle. Though the Imperial 
defenders fought bravely, the ramshackle war engines and bellowing hordes of the greenskins won victory after victory. 














‘SOME MAY QUESTION 
YOUR RIGHT TO 
DESTROY TEN 
BILLION PEOPLE. 
THOSE WHO 
UNDERSTAND 
REALISE THAT YOU 
HAVE NO RIGHT 
TO LET 
THEM LIVE.’ 


- Exterminatus Extremis 


In the grim darkness of the far future, there is only war. Like the players of 
some enormous game, the Dark Gods look out from the Realm of Chaos and 
move their pieces. Giants once more walk the stars, as the greatest of Daemons 
and Fallen Primarchs stride forth to do their masters’ bidding. The very gates of 
hell have been opened, and the galaxy burns... 


Everywhere, the foes of Humanity 
gathered, steeping themselves in the 
growing apocalypse. The Emperors 
Realm was surrounded, besieged. 

No sub-sector, system or planet was 
immune from conflict. When all went 
dark, those planets fortunate enough 
to avoid invasion still felt wars touch. 

As Imperial citizens watched the stars 
disappear, rebellions rose. Some were led 
by those corrupted by Chaos, insidious 
traitors awaiting a sign from the Dark 
Gods. They betrayed their own species 
for false promises of power or material 
gain. Not all uprisings were the product 
of Chaos, however. On some Imperial 
worlds, fearful of sedition, the rulers 
became so repressive that civil strife was 
inevitable. Once the flickering beam 
of the Astronomican had returned to 
some parts of the galaxy, it brought 
with it another threat. As the Imperium 
broke down, aliens - whether barbaric 
plunderers, ancient powers, upstart 
usurpers, or voracious monsters - all 
came forwards. They too clamoured for 
the chance to tear their hunk of flesh 
from the carcass that was the Realm 
of Mankind. 

Entities not seen, or glimpsed but briefly, 
during the long millennia stalked the 
stars once more. The most powerful 
Greater Daemons need to draw so 
much energy from the warp to stay 
manifest in reality that their presence 
in realspace tends to be relatively brief. 
The Great Rift’s eruption, however, had 
sent tidal waves of unnatural energies 
to the furthest reaches of the galaxy, 
empowering even the greatest Daemons 
for longer and longer periods. And more 
terrors from beyond followed. 

A new age of war and darkness was 
entered, plunging the Imperium and 
the entire galaxy into levels of war 


not seen since the zenith of the Horns 
Heresy. These campaigns, however, did 
not move in battlefronts, but erupted 
out of the roiling warp storms to wreak 
havoc before disappearing and turning 
up elsewhere, often halfway across the 
galaxy. Seeking to divide and conquer, 
the Chaos factions isolated swathes of 
the Imperium to pluck them off at their 
leisure. Old grudges were settled, while 
others used the mayhem to despoil the 
Imperium of Mankind for their own 
needs. Without plan or agenda beyond 
slaughter, the Red Tide - a carnage-filled 
crusade of wanton slaughter - launched 
a bloody path across the galaxy. Upon 
infernal battleships, the fallen Tech- 
Priests of the Dark Mechanicum stole 
forth from their hell-forge planets to 
scour the crippled Imperium for ancient 
archeotech, seeking the missing pieces 
to complete an unholy weapon of 
war, a terror not seen since the Age of 
Technology. Ahriman, Arch-Sorcerer of 
the Thousand Sons, brought terror raids 
to over three dozen planets, robbing 
their datascribes of precious knowledge 
before disappearing once again. From out 
of the Great Rift, each of the Dark Gods 
established their own strongholds, for 
secretly (and sometimes not so secretly) 
each coveted the whole of the galaxy for 
their own. 

As hopeless as it seemed, the Imperium 
was not yet defeated. As the minions 
of the Dark Gods squabbled among 
themselves, bringing their endless battles 
from the Realm of Chaos with them into 
realspace, not all was lost. Eventually, 
the Emperor’s Light could be seen once 
again, perhaps not as clearly, but it was 
visible nonetheless. And rumours of 
Primarchs returned to the galaxy gave 
many a sliver of hope - for his truest sons 
might yet bring victory as they had in 
days of legend. 


RUTHLESSNESS IS THE KINDNESS OF THE WISE. 


m ^ 


ETIIMTY OF MR 




















THOUGHT FOR THE DAY: LOOK TO YOUR LABOURS AND TRUST TO YOUR FAITH. ALL ELSE IS BEYOND YOU. 


mu 


% _ J 


n 


XSCi 


y i 


153 











MACRAGGE 

In the early stages of the invasion of Ultramar, many 
different strikes were levelled at the capital world of 
Macragge. Whether Mortarion planned these events to 
probe the defences of the Ultramarines’ home world, 
or merely aimed to tie down as many of the Imperial 
forces as he could, is unknown. All of the battles were 
short, sharp affairs, such as rapid strikes from Plague 
Drone forces, or cultist attacks attempting to deliver 
pox bombs into the heavily guarded defence networks. 
Whatever Mortarion’s intent, the number and variety of 
the attacks steadily drained both morale and resources 
from Macragge until Primarch Guilliman returned 
and seized the initiative with his own strikes into 
Chaos-held territories. 


iilili i n i Iiii illnlil l ■ 


WAR ZONE: ULTRAMAR 


Greedy eyes looked out from the roiling warp. They lingered long over the southern reaches of Ultima 
Segmentum. Nurgle wanted them for his own. He wished to lavish his gifts upon them, to watch their 
citizens sprout new growths and lament while other parts rotted and sloughed off. 


The worlds of Ultramar were 
prosperous, well governed and 
aesthetically beautiful. It is no 
wonder that such a gem drew the 
eager eye of Nurgle. Wishing to 
annex those worlds directly into 
his own Garden in the Realm of 
Chaos, the Father of Plagues set 
his minions to the task. After the 
Great Rift tore reality and flooded 
warp energies into the galaxy, 
Nurgle deemed the time was ripe. 


Where seeds of corruption had 
been planted, where the Plague That 
Walks, the Oozing Pox, and the 
Eyerot had decimated overcrowded 
hive worlds, there did Nurgle 
put forth his greatest efforts. As 
darkness closed over those worlds, 
new, virulent strains of those 
dreadful diseases started the cycle 
of death anew. This time, however, 
the cycle was completed, for there 
was life also. From the corpses of 


the fallen burst countless Nurglings. 
In the devastation that ensued, 

Cults of Corruption summoned 
further aid. The following battles 
- known by the Imperium as the 
Plague Wars - ended when three 
systems to the galactic north of 
Ultramar were corrupted and 
turned into the Scourge Stars. 
Calling upon three of his greatest 
commanders, Nurgle tasked them 
with next conquering Ultramar. 


HOPE IS THE FIRST STEP ON THE ROAD TO DISAPPOINTMENT. 




ULTRAMAR 

The first invaders to issue forth 
from the Scourge Stars were 
the Death Guard, led by their 
grim Primarch, Mortarion. His 
meticulously planned seven-part 
campaign would bring untold 
ruination to all of Ultramar. So 
began the first part - the War of 
Flies - including the assault of 
the Three Planets, the besieging 
of the hive world of Ardium, and 


INVADED 

the Creeping Doom offensive 
against Espandor and Drohl. 

Virus bombardments preceded 
the Death Guard. Once-gloried 
hive cities became pits, and agri 
worlds became flyblown wastes. 

The attacks were slow but relentless, 
wearing down the Ultramarines and 
their auxilia. With communications 
severed and relief forces cut off by 
fresh warp storms, the defenders 


were hard-pressed in a hundred 
locations across Ultramar. Then, 
Roboute Guilliman returned from 
his galaxy-spanning crusade. 
Tactically, Mortarion and his fellow 
commanders now found themselves 
evenly matched, their offensives 
blocked at every turn by the 
Ultramarines and their Primarch’s 
precise counter-attacks. A new stage 
of the war had begun. 














EUCLADUS 

[STAR FORT] 


VERIDIA FORGE 

[ADEPTUS MECHANICUS 
ASTEROID MINING 
OUTPOST] 


ULTIMA 

SEGMENTUM 


SYSTEM 


lamane 

[MINING WORLD] 


CALTH 

[DEATH WORLD] 


TERRA 


MAS ALI 

[AGRI WORLD] 


ULTRAMAR 

ULTIMA * 
SECTOR 


RAVISHOL 

[INDUSTRIAL WORLD] 


r£) M SYSTEM 


QUINTARN 

TARENTUS [agri world] 


^sub-secto 


[AGRI WORLD] 


ISCHARA 

[CIVILISED WORLD] 


| A42.X39.I19/A204.n27NRBGE04l j 


ESPANDOR 


A068Y963 

I9HJ6349 

II85NQ49 


,Veridl 


TARVAN 


KONOR 


TALASSAR 


DROHL 


A06Y96.Z9H639.II8NQ461 [ ' 


PRANDIUM 


MACRAGGfi 


masIali 


PARMENIO 


CIRCE 


I A04X27.E19A72.II27MT04ll 


talasA 


MORTENDAR 

[FORTRESS WORLD] 


A468K663.£4PK3357.n25FK483] 


FALAN’S REACH 

[FORTRESS WORLD] 


S ^STEM 


tALASA SYSTEM 


LAPHIS 

[SHRINE WORLD] 


ULDREGOR 

[AGRI WORLD] 


DANARCH 


[FEUDAL WORLD/ 


BLOCKADED] 


THULIUM 

[DEATH WORLD] 


NOVA THULIUM 

[AGRI WORLD] 


. TALASA.PRIME 

[DEATHWATCH 

TALASA SECUNDUS fortress world] 

[HIVE WORLD] ' 


ARPIUM 

[HIVE WORLD] 


A722Y335 

X94CC09 

X82II081 


MACRAGGE 

[CHAPTER HOMEWORLD] 


TALASA TERTIUS 

[INDUSTRIAL WORLD] 











































THE MARCH OF PLAGUES 


i jiB hihw n tawm 


A GOOD LIFE IS ONE THAT SERVES THE EMPEROR’S COMMAND. 


Across Ultramar, the Plague Wars escalated. 
Guilliman’s brilliant counter-attacks staved off 
defeat, allowing him to stabilise fronts across 
several systems. The largest battles of the war, 
however, were still to come. 


With Mortarion’s Creeping Doom offensive mired in 
continent-spanning trench warfare in the Espandor 
System, the Daemon Primarch shifted his focus, 
joining forces with Ku’gath. Together, they sent their 
surviving forces to Parmenio and lax simultaneously. 
On Parmenio, the largest armour and Titan battle 
of the war took place over the shell-ridden Plains of 
Hecatone. At the battle’s height, Roboute Guilliman 
struck against Ku’gath’s vanguard, slaying his lieutenant, 
Septicus, and shattering his Plague Guard. In space, 
Galatan - Ultramar’s largest star fortress - attempted to 
provide support but was boarded by the Plague Fleet. 
Massive casualties ensued, including the loss of the 
Novamarines’ Chapter Master. The Ultramarines and 
their auxilia made gains on Parmenio, and Guilliman 
led a relief force to lax. Once a verdant garden world, it 
was in ruins when Primarch met Primarch. Guilliman 
confronted Mortarion, fighting to a deadlock before the 
Death Guard withdrew under cover of a virus bomb. 


IAX BEFOULED 

The final battle of the Plague War was fought at 
First Landing, on lax. Before the ruined citadel the 
Death Guard held the upper hand, their relentless 
assault all but unstoppable, when Mortarion was 
summoned back to the Scourge Stars to defend his 
holdings at the onset of the War in the Rift. 


- - 


ESPANDOR 

Mortarion’s Creeping Doom offensive on the 
cardinal world of Espandor initially made great 
advances. When Guilliman returned, however, he 
ordered a new defensive plan to slow the attacks. 
As the battle turned into a stalemate, the Primarch 
launched a series of system-wide counter-attacks. 


In attacking Ultramar, Mortarion was not alone. 
Two other commanders led massive armies out 
from the Scourge Stars, each seeking to win the 
contaminated glory of Nurgle’s favour. 

Ku’gath Plaguefather, a favoured Great Unclean One, 
led the Bubonicus legions into Ultramar. Typhus, First 
Captain of the Death Guard, commanded a Plague 
Fleet, a dilapidated rot-armada packed with Renegades, 
cultists and his own loyal Death Guard. Ku’gath’s 
Daemon legions ravaged the Tartella System, which 
lay between the Scourge Stars and Ultramar, before 
manifesting on the garden world of lax, an ideal place 
to nurture new diseases. The Plague Fleet, meanwhile, 
destroyed three of the six massive star fortresses that 
stood sentinel over Ultramar’s shipping lanes. Even 
with Guilliman’s return, the attacks were too many 
and too widespread for the defenders to contain. The 
timely arrival of the Ultramarines’ successor Chapters, 
however, along with reinforcements from several forge 
worlds, allowed the Primarch to attempt to regain the 
initiative. Guilliman launched the Spear of Espandor 
counter-attack, hoping to buy the forces of the 
Imperium more time. 

DEADLDCKED 



















FORCES OF THE IMPERIUM 

The defence of Ultramar was really a tale of three parts: the initial losses, where the defenders gave 
ground before the Death Guard onslaught; the stabilisation with the return of Primarch Guilliman; 
and finally, the seizing of the initiative with the Primarch’s counter-attacks along with the final battle. 


DEFENDERS OF ULTRAMAR 


SPEAR OF ESPANDOR 

Ultramarines 7 Companies 

Genesis Chapter 6 Companies 

Aurora Chapter 5 Companies 

Silver Eagles 5 Companies 

Sons of Orar 3 Companies 

Mortifactors 3 Companies 

Knights Cerulean 3 Companies 

Varied Astartes Chapters* 14 Companies 
Ultramar Auxilia 9 Regiments 

Order of the Valorous Heart 2 Preceptories 
Grey Knights Unknown 

Sisters of Silence Unknown 


*Many Chapters arrived to lend aid to Ultramar 
and to fight beneath Roboute Guilliman. The 
Primarch and Lord Commander of the Imperium 
organised those Adeptus Astartes in less-than- 
company numbers into battle-brother battalions, 
using them for special missions and to shore up the 
Ultramar Auxilia. 


THE PLAINS OF HECATONE 


Varied Astra Militarum 

Ultramar Auxilia 

Ultramar Super-heavy Armour 

Ultramarines 

Ultramarines Neophytes 

White Scars 

Legio Oberon 

Legio Atarus 

Legio Fortis 

House Terryn 

House Hawkshroud 

House Konor 

Legio Cybernetica 

Skitarii 


18 Regiments 
21 Regiments 
3 Regiments 
3 Companies 
Unknown 
3 Companies 
Demi-Legion 
Demi-Legion 
Demi-Legion 
3 Households 
2 Households 
2 Households 
3 Cohorts 
5 Legions 


DEFENCE OF GALATAN 


Novamarines 5 Companies 

Ultramar Auxilia 12 Regiments 

Deathwatch 21 Kill Teams 

Grey Knights Unknown 


BATTLE OF FIRST 

Roboute Guilliman 
Ultramarines 
Novamarines 
Silver Eagles 
Howling Griffons 
Libators 

Ultramar Auxilia 
Astra Militarum 
Legio Praetor 
Skitarii 


LANDING 

Primarch 
8 Companies 
3 Companies 
3 Companies 
6 Companies 
2 Companies 
21 Regiments 
15 Regiments 
Demi-Legion 
5 Legions 


‘Let them flee beneath cover 
of their virus bomb. By the 
Emperor, they shall be repaid 
tenfold for the evils they have 
wrought upon Ultramar.’ 

- Roboute Guilliman 


FORCES OF CHAOS 

The invasion of Ultramar began as separate spearheads, but as the campaigns slowed, Mortarion and 
Ku’gath formed an alliance. Unlike the Champions of the other Dark Gods, Nurgle’s lieutenants were 
more capable of cooperation. This was not the case, however, between Typhus and Mortarion. 


INVADERS OF ULTRAMAR 


BUBONICUS FORCE 
INFECTUS (IAX) 

Ku’gath Plaguefather Greater Daemon 

Septicus Greater Daemon 

Plague Guard Legion 

Legions of the Three-Eyed Fly 7 Legions 

Poxdroners 7 Legions 

Bouncing T ide Nurgling Horde 

Slimepack Beast ofNurgle Warherd 

Sporewalker Colossal Beast 

Cult of Renewal Seercult 

Cult of Blessed Protrusion Warcult 

SIEGE BRINGERS (ARDIUM) 

Poxguard 7 Companies 

Dontorian Heavy Artillery 4 Batteries 

Chem Squads 3 Companies 

Contamination Corp 2 Companies 

Dark Magi Coven 

Legio Pestis Demi-Legion 

Infernal Devices 3 Engines 

Plague Zombies Unknown 


WAR OF FLIES CAMPAIGN 

Death Guard 5 Plague Companies 

Drudgewalkers 7 Plaguebearer Legions 

Zzzzartap’s Circus 7 Drone Wings 

Flylords 4 Companies 

Winged Rotflies Mutated Fly Swarm 


THE PLAINS OF HECATONE 

Death Guard 4 Plague Companies 

Children of Blight 12 Companies 

Befoulers 7 Claw Corps 

Rot Reapers 4 Companies 

Blight Guard 14 Regiments 

Filth Engines 7 Regiments 

Steel Tide 15 Companies 

Ironhulks 12 Regiments 

Plaguereapers 3 Companies 

Dontorian Heavy Artillery 2 Batteries 

Seven Blights 7 Blight Towers 

Legio Mortis Demi-Legion 

House Slughorn 3 Households 


FINAL BATTLE OF IAX 

Mortarion Daemon Primarch 

Death Guard Traitor Legion 

The Scabbed Chapter 

Heltrenchers 5 Companies 

Epidemius Proctor of Pestilence 

Sloughskins 7 Plaguebearer Legions 

Carrion Legion 7 Plaguebearer Legions 

Talliers of the Dead 7 Plaguebearer Legions 

House Drear 3 Households 

The Anointed Warcult 

Keepers of the Cauldron Seercult 

Infumers 3 Chem Legions 

Slimehorn Legions 7 Pestigor Legions 


‘Bursting with life. Bursting 
with life. Bursting with life.’ 


- War Drone of 
the Sloughskins 



BEREFT OF ALL HOPE IS HE WHO SPURNS THE EMPEROR’S BLESSING. 

































THE FALL DF GADIA 



At the culmination of Abaddon’s 
Thirteenth Black Crusade, the 
Cicatrix Maledictum had all but 
consumed Cadia. With the great 
pylons toppled by Abaddon’s 
conquering hordes and the colossal 
warp storm of the Eye of Terror no 
longer held at bay, the dread powers 
of Chaos ravaged the planet beyond 
recovery. And still the neighbouring 
worlds and systems were defiant. 

Had Cadia not been famous for 
holding so long against the odds, 
it is likely the other planets in the 
system would have capitulated or 
given up almost immediately. No 
normal world could stand in the 
face of the horrendous, sanity- 
devouring armies that descended 
upon the Cadian Gate in such 
terrifying measure. However, 
the wider systems of Cadia, Belis 
Corona, and Agripinaa stood fast. 


Perhaps, just as a veteran can 
lead lesser men to deeds of great 
heroism, Cadia had inspired those 
worlds around it to defend every 
nation and city to the last bullet. 
Perhaps Cadia’s surviving soldiery 
lent strength through their hunger 
for retribution. Perhaps those 
battered by the storm simply fought 
for survival. Whatever the reason, 
the defenders of the Cadian Gate 
resolved to uphold the virtues of its 
lynchpin world come what may. 

In the confusion of outright war, 
the hordes of Chaos began to turn 
upon themselves. Though they 
were ascendant, their ultimate 
conquest had yet to be clinched. 
Rival warlords, both mortal and 
daemonic, clashed over the spoils 
of victories not yet won. The 
Imperial defenders were quick to 
capitalise on each strategic misstep, 


for many were veterans of the 
wars upon Cadia, and they knew 
how to goad a fractious enemy 
into overextending its reach. From 
dissolution came destruction. Day 
by day the Imperial armies clawed 
back a semblance of control. Soon 
the war zone was in contention 
once more, the dread stranglehold 
of Chaos loosened by the sheer 
determination of the Astra 
Militarum and the vengeful fury 
of the Space Marines. Each new 
dawn was greeted by a scattering of 
ships from the Great Exodus, those 
fortunate souls who had braved 
the empyrean tempests and lived 
to tell of it. Again and again the 
fighting escalated, the fires of war 
that had burned Cadia to cinders 
roaring to life anew upon the other 
worlds of the Cadian System, as well 
as those of the Belis Corona and 
Agripinaa Systems. 


r*H: 




5EGMENTUM DGSCUHU 


□CEJRUS 


SEGMENTUM SOUR 


EY EcMLT ERROR # 

JP fe^Tjyj MlMI GATE ’ - < 


ULTIMA H 
SEEM ENTOMB 


THE CADIAN GATE 


TD 

^ NEMESIS 
TESSER/ 


V 'BELIS CORONA 


AGRIPINAA \ 

TD 1 
HYDRAPHURT 


TD 

TERRA & 
\ MARS 


CADIAN SYSTEM 


HASH 

PARTDX 

(FORTRESS 

WORLD) 


O) SHARIA 

(MILITARISED 

SOLAR HIVEWDRLD) 
MARIATUS 

(FORTRESS WORLD) 


VIGILATUM 

(NAVAL TRAINING WORLD) 


FORTRESS 

WORLD) 


KDRDLIS 

(PROMETHIAN 

PRODOGTIDN 

FACILITY) 



PROSAN 

(HOSTILE 
ENVIRONMENT 
TRAINING 
FACILITY) . 


KASR 

SONNEN 

(FORTRESS 

WORLD) 


kaSr 

HDLN 

(FORTRESS 

WORLD) 


&T. JOSMANE S 
HOPE 

(DESTROYED) 


BELIS CORONA SYSTEM AGRIPINAA SYSTEM 


-T BELIS 
ARIS CORONA 

mU) (NAVAL 
DDCK) 


SORWYN BELT ** 
(RADIOACTIVE^* 
ASTEROID FIELD) f 


$0 


\ \ GHAERDS 

(INDUSTRIAL WORLD) 

AGRIPINAA , 

(FORGE WORLD) IWnH 


W " I- D0CK)V^I MAiOSDIR 

Q © kmnmrM 

V/ , (CONTACT LOST) / 

(FIREWDRID) XT, 

MINING WOHLD)^^ 


t tuolJj 

DRAX XS? URATH 

(MINING WORLD) AORENT (DEATH WORLD) 
(NAVAL WAY STATION) 

[AGRIPINAA SYSTEM CORE WORLDS SHOWN] 




NARSINE 

(HIVE WORLD) 




While the planet Cadia was the main target of Abaddon’s invasion, the region was heavily built-up with defences. Every planet was heavily 
garrisoned and well equipped with orbital sentry stations and vast arrays of defence lasers, rockets and ion shields. Yet with innumerable warp 
storms raging, the systems around the Cadian Gate found it extremely risky to deploy reinforcements to aid one another, or even to use their 
many war fleets to drive off the attacking hordes. Still, despite being outnumbered many times over, each of the fallen systems and planets 
reaped a heavy toll upon the Chaos attackers, none more so than the fortress worlds of Solar Mariatus, Partox, and finally Cadia herself. 

Imr ■ - 


# 


























ARMIES OF THE IMPERIUM 

The final battles of Cadia had prevented the disaster from being total. Though Cadia itself was lost, 
the defence of Kasr Kraf held up Abaddon’s final assault, and the mayhem that followed allowed a 
great number of troops and military assets to reach the Imperial evacuation zone and depart. 


DEFENCE OF KASR 

Cadian Shock Troops 
Cadian Kasrkin 
Cadian Youth Corp 
Tithed Astra Militarum 
Skitarii 

Siege Auxilia Corps 

Legio Metalica 

Order of the Bloody Rose 

Angels of Absolution 

Black Consuls 

Varied Astartes Chapters* 


TRUNCH 

127 Regiments 
65 Regiments 
12 Regiments 
18 Regiments 
5 Legions 
528 Batteries 
Demi-Legion 
2 Preceptories 

3 Companies 

4 Companies 
4 Companies 


THE LAST DEFENCE OF CADIA 

THE LONG RETREAT 


TRUNCH COUNTER-ATTACK 

Black Consuls 6 Companies 

Watchguards 6 Companies 

Varied Astartes Chapters* 12 Companies 

Officio Assassinorum Classified 

*The Cadian Gate was guarded by the Astartes Praeses 
but also by elements of 21 other Chapters deployed 
across the sector. 


Cadian Shock Troops 

41 Regiments 

Cadian Kasrkin 

16 Regiments 

Zenonian Free Companies 

9 Companies 

Tithed Astra Militarum 

12 Regiments 

Dhonovar Heavy Armour 

5 Companies 

Legio Cybernetica 

3 Cohorts 

Order of the Ebon Chalice 

3 Preceptories 

Hallicon Armoured 

5 Regiments 

Ordo Reductor 

Demi-Legion 

Legio Ignatum 

Legion 

HIGH-ORBIT OFFENSIVE 

Novamarines 

4 Companies 

Reclaimers 

3 Companies 

Excoriators 

3 Companies 

Cerulean Guard 

3 Companies 

Iron Hands 

2 Companies 

Varied Astartes Chapters* 

7 Companies 


All the Adeptus Astartes assets were stripped from Mos 
Khazner’s defence in an attempt to retake the orbital 
batteries. Their success allowed the Long Retreat. 


CASTELLAN’S LAST STAND 

Cadian Shock Troops 99 Regiments 

Cadian Kasrkin 6 Regiments 

Brazen Claws 3 Companies 

Black Consuls 2 Companies 

Centurio Ordinatus 4 Ordinatus 

Legio Gryphonicus Demi-Legion 

Freeblades Unknown 

Skitarii 3 Legions 

Fort Drokz Penal Legions 4 Legions 

House Krast 2 Households 

Legion of the Damned Unknown 

Relictors 2 Companies 

Masque of the Hidden Path 9 Troupes 

Varied Astartes Chapters* 5 Companies 


++TRANSMISSION: THE LAST SHIP - PRIDE 
OF CADIA - IS AWAY. REPEAT, THE LAST 
TRANSPORT IS AWAY. MAY THE EMPEROR 
PROTECT US.++ 


. 



FORCES OF CHAOS 

Abaddon led the final assault force against Cadia in 

person. With him came the legions of the hellish 

Eye of Terror, the manifold hosts of the Dark Gods amassed under a single banner. The cause that 
united them was not just the destruction of the Imperium, but the demise of the material realm itself. 


FINAL ASSAULT UPON CADIA 

ABADDON’S VANGUARD 

PLAGUE ARMIES 

THE DECADENT HORDE 

Black Legion 

Traitor Legion 

Slogoth Poxbelly Exalted Greater Daemon 

Sidroh the Sinuous Exalted Greater Daemon 

Iron Warriors 

Traitor Legion 

Drub’sla Plaguehost 

7 Legions 

The Writhing Host 6 Legions 

World Eaters 

5 Warbands 

Three-Eyed Tolltakers 

7 Legions 

The Undulators 6 Legions 

Emperor’s Children 

5 Hedonistic Hosts 

Blightwalkers 

7 Legions 

Violators 5 Warbands 

Night Lords 

3 Warbands 

Nurgling Tide 

Uncountable 

Children of Torment 3 Warbands 

Death Guard 

3 Plague Companies 

The Tainted 

7 Companies 

Pain Armoured Brigade 2 Sonic Companies 

Alpha Legion 

Unknown 

The Horned 

Pestigor Legion 

The Hedonastic Entire Cult 

Word Bearers 

5 Companies 

The Risen 

Plague Zombies 

Tentacled Behemoth Warp Monster 

Legio Mortis 

Demi-Legion 

Ogryn Brutepox 

3 Companies 




The Stigmatus Convent 
The Viscous 

Entire Cult 

Entire Cult 

THE DAMNED 

RED LEGIONS 



As befits Abaddon’s cruelty and meticulous planning, 

Khan’zhar the Red Exalted Greater Daemon 



thirteen massive transports of combat-drugged 

Bloodguard 

8 Greater Daemons 

THE HOST IRIDESCENT 

mutants, wretches, zombies and Chaos Spawn were 

Redhost 

8 Legions 

M’katchnar Exalted Greater Daemon 

crash-landed into the ruined city of Kasr Kharkov an, 

Fellblades 

8 Legions 

Triumvirate of Arcanzarr Daemon Coven 

ensuring that many of the final assaults were 

Kaghrexx’s Destroyers 

8 Legions 

Scintillating Host 

9 Legions 

performed by the least storied among his armies. 

Kharn the Betrayer 

Legend 

Legions of Shimmerlak 

9 Legions 


Gorehands 

Blood Engines 

5 Companies 
Armour Battalion 

Unkbolt Conflock 

The Scourged 

9 Tzaangor Warflocks 

4 Companies 

‘Destroy it all. Do not stop 

Skullcorps 

18 Regiments 

Eagles Iridescent 

3 Companies 

until it is ruins. Let it become a 

Bloodemption 

Cult 

Kabal of Umbra 

Entire Cult 

monument to death.’ 




NO HOPE RESTS FOR US BEYOND THE EMPEROR 




























t Q L> o 


WAR ZONE: STYGIUS 


0 

4 

t 

0 


In the wake of the Great Rift, 
Tzeentch looked upon his brothers. 
Without plan or agenda, Khorne 
and Slaanesh were glutting 
themselves on slaughter and 
torment, consumed by their 
rampages, but when Tzeentch saw 
Nurgle corrupting a whole realm, 
he grew jealous, seeking as ever 
to conspire against him, but also 
wishing to seize star systems for his 
own. So did the Architect of Fate 
put a million plans in motion. The 
Crystal Stars intrigued Tzeentch, 
as did the Shrouded Zone. It was 
the Stygius Sector, however, that he 
would attempt to claim first. It was 
in Segmentum Obscurus, near the 
Eye and cut off from the Emperors 
Light. There, entropy raged the 
fiercest, and amidst the maelstrom 
of unnatural energies the tightly 
packed pattern of nine-times-nine 
star systems called out irresistibly 
to Tzeentch. 


OPENING PHASES 

The war began with cult uprisings 
across a score of planets. Although 
the Noctis Aeterna had long since 
ended in the galactic south, the 
sectors of the Imperium Nihilus 
were still wracked with frequent 
warp storms. Each planet was 
isolated, a perfect atmosphere for 
the Changeling to play his many 
duplicitous roles. Only when each 
world was seething with rebellion 
did invasion follow. Sweeping out of 
the warp rifts came Magnus the Red 
and his Thousand Sons, the Greater 
Daemon M’Kachen and its Great 
Changehost, and the Coven of Nine, 
each leading an army of Renegades, 
Daemons, and cultists. Three of the 
star systems were swiftly conquered, 
as the arcane assaults were too 
much for the Imperial defenders. 

Of those worlds attacked, only the 
benighted hive world of Mordian 
held out. 


COUNTER-ATTACK 

As storms shifted and revealed 
the weakest flickering of the 
Astronomican, relay networks sent 
out a slew of distress signals. Several 
Chapters of Adeptus Astartes and 
Skitarii Legions answered. Daring 
only short jumps through the warp, 
these forces arrived too late - seven 
sub-sectors had already fallen 
into Chaos hands. The battles to 
stave off the invasion and retake 
the fallen planets were epic in size 
and savagery. In a long campaign, 
the siege of Mordian was finally 
relieved. This was followed by 
six major clashes in the Dhobash 
System, where the Thousand Sons 
met the Space Wolves amidst crystal 
terraforming on Tarkan. Initial 
Imperial gains were soon offset, 
however, and only the unlooked-for 
arrival of an Aeldari warhost on 
the ice world of Rimenok staved off 
further Imperial disaster. 


Wif n~ 


warn 




SEGMENTUM ^ 
OBSCURUS * W 

piMMAIty£» v 

1_ STYGIUS 
SECTOR _ 



MORDIAN SYSTEM 


NIGRELLDM 

(FORTRESS WORLD) 



M 

M: 

RHD-DELPHA 

(FORGE WORLD) 


VANDER’S 
LANDING 

(AGRI WORLD) 

+ VIRUS BOMBED + 


-*1 


iff 

’O' 


m 


v- 


* 

it 


STYGIUS SECTOR 


TO \ 
YPRA 
MONO! 


-jjL KHRAVDS \ 

/ MORDIAN « 


TO 

DIMM A MAR 


^ DHDBASH ^ 


URTEK 


SALAMAR - v TD PRISMATA 

^ PISCINA 


— 


DHOBASH SYSTEM 



VEK-VEKIR 
MEL K AH DR (hive world) 

.IN (MINING WORLD) 

IIVE WORLD) v 

BESIEGED i 


A If A Mil AT DAKIDDA 

AKANDAT (FORTRESS WORLD) 
(DEATH WORLD) / 


if 


PRISMATA SYSTEM 


HELIDTRAX. 

CHI! 


HDYGEN (ARCHIVE WORLD) 
(MININGJVORLD) 



KALIDDS 

(HIVE WORLD)/ 



CHROMA 

(DEATH WORLD) 

AMARANTHDS J 

(FACTORY WORLD) 


War in the Stygius Sector was rendered hellish by the waxing power of Tzeentch. Temporal anomalies flowed from the roiling storms of the 
Great Rift, hurling entire warfleets far into the past or future. Worlds shifted place or even disappeared - the 44th Necromundan ‘Spirehawks’ 
were lost when they commenced a combat drop on the world of Dakidda, only for it to vanish into a sucking empyric vortex. Even on the 
ground, day became night, gravity and time writhed like pained animals, and the dead rose as ghosts to torment the living. 


)on 



■acta 




^ f%£. 


jm 






























ARMIES OF THE IMPERIUM 


A hastily prepared relief effort, the Stygius Crusade 

was not well enough supplied nor of sufficient 

numbers to defeat the combination of Daemon and Traitor Legions arrayed against them. The initial 

headway won by the ferocity of the Adeptus Astartes’ assaults could not be sustained. 




STYGIUS CRUSADE 



MORDIAN DEFENDERS 

ASSAULT ON TARKAN 

DISASTER AT RIMENOK 

Mordian Iron Guard 

26 Regiments 

Space Wolves 

7 Great Companies 

Rimenok Ice Warriors 

12 Regiments 

Tetrarchs Guard 

12 Regiments 

Iron Hands 

5 Companies 

Rimenok Heavy Armour 

3 Companies 

Mordian Defence Force 

18 Regiments 

Dark Angels 

4 Companies 

Rimenok Beast Trainers 

1 Company 

Mordian Penal Battalions 

3 Regiments 

Sons of Medusa 

3 Companies 

The Faithful 

Zealot Mob 

Mordian Super-heavy Battalion 5 Companies 

Tarkan Longrifles 

10 Regiments 

Mordian Iron Guard 

5 Regiments 

Astropathic Corps 

3 Companies 

Tarkan Roughriders 

1 Company 

Space Wolves 

4 Great Companies 

Pressed Hive Gangs 

Unknown 

Mordian Iron Guard 

7 Regiments 

Iron Hands 

3 Companies 

Nigrellum Guard 

8 Regiments 

Varied Astra Militarum 

12 Regiments 

Dark Angels 

3 Companies 

The Ordo Xenos Contingent 
The Ordo Hereticus Contingent 

Unknown 
: Unknown 

Tarkan Brutes Manufactorum Enforcers 

ALLIES FROM ULTHWE 

The Ordo Malleus Contingent 

Unknown 



Seer Council 

Coven 


OPERATION PRISMATA 

Black Storm 

4 Warhosts 



Space Wolves 

2 Great Companies 

Lileath’s Blade 

1 Skyhost 

MORDIAN RELIEF FORCE 

Iron Hands 

5 Companies 

Serpent Striking 

1 Aspect Warhost 

Space Wolves 9 Great Companies 

Brazen Claws 

4 Companies 

Duality of Purpose 

2 Revenant Titans 

Iron Hands 

7 Companies 

Dark Angels 

4 Companies 



Dark Angels 

6 Companies 

Angels of Vengeance 

5 Companies 

++TRANSMISSION: ATTENTION MEN OF THE 
IMPERIUM. WE ARE THE SEER COUNCIL 

Angels of Redemption 

3 Companies 

Consecrators 

5 Companies 

OF ULTHWE. WE BROADCAST ON THESE 

Skitarii 

5 Legions 

Sisters of Silence 

Unknown 

FREQUENCIES TO TELL YOU THE FUTURE. YOUR 

Legio Cybernetica 

2 Cohorts 

Grey Knights 

Unknown 

FOE MAGNUS HAS READ IT ALSO. THERE CAN 

House Mundast 

2 Households 



BE NO VICTORY HERE. OUR STRIKE FORCE WILL 
COVER YOUR RETREAT. MARTYRDOM HERE 
SERVES NO PURPOSE SAVE THE ENEMY’S.++ 


FORCES OF CHAOS 

Charged with invading an entire sector of Imperial space, the eleven different army groups wove a 
pattern of attacks and advances that was well coordinated and seamless. Guided by mighty Sorcerers 
and oracles, it was not long before a new realm in realspace was carved out for Tzeentch. 

CONQUERORS OF A NEW REALM 


SIEGE OF MORDIAN 

Coven of Nine 6 Exalted Sorcerers 

Coven of Many Eyes Sorcerer Coven 

Benedictian Guard 13 Regiments 

Nochfell Black Guard Unknown 

Night Lords 5 Warbands 

Knights of the Silver Tower 3 Companies 

Oracles of Change Warband 

Engines Arcana 12 Batteries 

Spellcannon of Tlaxx 3 Batteries 

Conflagral Host Flamer Legion 

Skyscreamers 3 Aerial Legions 

Capering Cohorts 9 Legions 

Cracklehost of T’zarr 9 Legions 

Morphius Conflock 9 Tzaangor Warflocks 
Pact of Nine Promises Seer cult 

Masked Brotherhood Warcult 

Warpchild Colossal Summoned Entity 

Cult of the Whispered Word Unknown 

Reign of Lies Subversive Division 

The Grand Illusion Planetwide Spell 


CONQUERORS OF DHOBASH 

Magnus the Red Daemon Primarch 

Thousand Sons Traitor Legion 

Host of a Thousand Names 9 Legions 

Congregation of Flame 9 Legions 

Unbound 9 Legions 

House Chromatic 9 Households 

Doom Wing 5 Wings 

Talons Iridescent 5 Wings 

Dark Mechanicum 6 Legions 

Bastions Crystalline 9 Fortresses 

PRISMATA RITUAL 

Coven of Nine 2 Exalted Sorcerers 

Cult of Bluefire Seercult 

Cult of Coldflame Seercult 

Changebringers 4 Companies 

Plogg’cha Conflock 9 Tzaangor Warflocks 

Dark Mechanicum 3 Legions 

Legio Proditor Legion 

House Arcanus 3 Households 


SLAUGHTER AT RIMENOK 

Thousand Sons Traitor Legion 

Kairos Fateweaver Greater Daemon 

League of Fate Lord of Change Coven 

Banner of Many Eyes 9 Legions 

Talons of Change 9 Legions 

Mutagenics 9 Legions 

House Chromatic 9 Households 

Warriors Resplendent 5 Companies 

Talons Iridescent 5 Wings 

Traitors of Tarkan 5 Regiments 

Coven of Disbelief Warcult 

Bolts Arcanite Warcult 

Conjurers of Fear Seercult 

Burning Idol Arcane Effigy 

++ALL THINGS ARE MUTABLE... 

STARS, TIME, VENGEANCE. 

THE DARK STARS SHALL BE OURS... 

AND NINE TIMES NINE ARE THEIR NUMBER.++ 

- Regardless of what was sent, this was the only 
astropathic message receivable in the Stygius Sector 





TO LACK CONVICTION IS TO INVITE DEFEAT. 




























f 

1 


-f- 




ft 


M 



THE BLOOD CRUSADE 





In celebration of the great conquests that were sure to 
come, Khorne bellowed. That roar shook the galaxy, 
sending further splits in reality cracking across its 
riven middle. His followers - from Daemon legions 
to brutish beasts to violent-minded hive cultists - all 
took up that call to arms. Riding new crests of the warp 
storms known as the Blood Waves, the Daemon legions 
erupted from the Cicatrix Maledictum, bringing new 
orgies of slaughter across the galaxy. Thus began the 
Blood Crusade. The red-raged armies did not seek out 
destinations. Instead, the gore-slavering fiends merely 
rode where the storms took them, materialising upon 
a planet to unleash carnage, and leaving when the 
tempests moved beyond. Eight distinct spearheads 
drove out into the galaxy in all directions, and as 
blood-trails draw in predators, so too did the Blood 
Crusade. Renegades, cultists, the criminally violent 
- all were drawn towards this unbound rage. Tomb 
worlds fell, Imperial forge worlds became abattoirs, 
and Tyranid hive fleets were eradicated. In some cases, 
entire populations were sacrificed to the Blood God, 
but in most instances the attack only lasted for a few 
hours, delivering its bloody decimation before the 
Slaughterhost was gone again. New forces joined, while 
others dropped off. In all the thousands of battles, only 
twice did the Blood Crusade meet its match. Only upon 
hearing the whispered words of his brother Tzeentch 
did Khorne finally halt his Blood Crusade, calling back 
his most fell-handed lieutenants for what was to be 
known as the War in the Rift. 


FIRST WAVE OF FURY 


THE FIRST BLADE 

Skarbrand The Living Rage 
Kharkexx Greater Daemon 


Cult Risings 

Redblades 

Disembowelers 

Bloodcrushers 

Gorefists 

Veindrinkers 

Ravagers 

Slaughterkin 


888 Cults 
88 Legions 
8 Legions 
8 Legions 
4 Blood Hosts 
4 Blood Hosts 
3 Blood Hosts 
8 Blood Hosts 


Brazen Beasts 5 Blood Hosts 
Redhorn Bloodgors Warherd 
Iron Brigade War Engines 

Demolishers 8 Skull Batteries 


THE SECOND BLADE 

Ka’Bandha Greater Daemon 
Doombreed Daemon Prince 
Snarlpack 88 Legions 

Karanak’s Hunt 88 Legions 
Doom Battery 8 Lords of Skulls 
Slaughterkin 8 Blood Hosts 
Kharn the Betrayer Legend 
World Eaters Traitor Legion 
Red Redemption Warcult 
Dhorexx Fiend Warp Beast 
Malcrusher Warp Beast 

Maulers 6 Companies 

Shredblades Warcult 


I 

O 

0 

6 



ARMIES OF OCTARIUS 

GHAZGHKULL’S 

HIVE FLEET 

GREENSKIN HORDE 

LEVIATHAN 

Ghazghkull 

Ork Warlord 

Swarmlord Leader 

Iron Mountains 

Gargant Mob 

Bio-Titans 48 Creatures 

Goffguard 

15 Big Mobs 

Subterranean Swarm Unknown 

Stompa Mobs 

6 Big Mobs 

Gaunt Swarm Unknown 

Blitz Brigade 

33 Big Mobs 

Hive Broods Unknown 

Freebooterz 

28 Big Mobs 

Crone Armada Unknown 

Speed Freeks 

15 Big Mobs 


Dread Mob 

19 Big Mobs 

The combined might of Ghazghkulls 

Trukk Brigade 

15 Big Mobs 

greenskins and the Tyranid hordes 

Waaagh! Core 

126 Big Mobs 

of Hive Fleet Leviathan fought the 

GoffKillmob 

12 Mobs 

Blood Crusade to a standstill on 

Air Skwadrons 

27 Flights 

Octarius before the Daemons left 

Grot Hordes 

Lotz 

via warp storm. 




H^fHOLYTERRA^;* 

• •• 


SEGMENTUM 
. SOLAR 



ATTILA^* 


BALOR ♦' Y ^sPCT OR 


BANE'S LANDING 


SEGMENTUM • nephilim 
TEMPESTJJS sector |_| 





TD 

ATTILA 


THE BLOOD CRUSADE 

* 


TD 

DGTARIUS 


/ BALOR \ 

' * 7 ^> n f 

'SBHINDELGHEIST 


* 


REDUGTA 


\' 

♦ 


AGRAX 


BANE’S LANBINB 


BALOR SYSTEM 


I 


v 


■ BUARAIN 

(INDUSTRIAL 

WORLD) 


ETHNIB 

(AGRI WDRLD) 

1 ; 

I 

MAG 

.. (DEAD WDRLI ) 

RAinn CELTHENN / X 
BALOR (FORTRESS W0RLDyo*n 


/ 


(I 

(DGEANIG MINING 
WDRLD) 




BANE S LANBINB 


Y 


A 


*-#• 



MENDAXIS 

_(SHRINE; WDRLD) 

T OELTHENN 

(FDRTRESS WDRLD) 

METHUSELA V* • / 
(HIVE world) SAGASITANEII 

(DEATH WDRLD - TEMPESTU 
SGIDN TRAINING FACILITY! 


OGTARIBS SYSTEM 

Gy:Y 


Q 


V —r BADSPUIG 

•„ ^ GDHK’S (OHK HELD 

•». .DMA BDNGE feral wdhld) 

TREAD WORLD) (SDPA-RDK, 



ijlvo^mdby GATEGI 


tyranJos 


PLANETOID) 


DRY K 
ETDID) 


$ 


DGTARIA (gm, DAKKAZOT 

(DRK HELD (DRK WAR WORLD 

DEATH WORLD) [JRMOK SUB REF FERAL WDHLD) 
(DRK FACTORY WORLD, ORBITAL JUNKA-PDRTS) 


ATTILA SYSTEM 



\ 


ALEXANDRUM 



AGRIPPUS 

(PRISON WORLD 


m\ 

(ARCHIVUM WORLD- ^ ... 

1 HEAVILY FORTIFIED) GYLftX VI 

^ (FORGE WORLD) 


ATTILA 

(FEUDAL WDRLD) 


/ •• 


HANIBAEL 

(HIVE WORLD) 


> or O .A O. o: i 4 




ET. 


1 KMl 


,.c ttast i 


4SS 


&>$***”>* i 




,. -« - ■* 

l^y I 4 S3 


a 







































\ 


CRAFTWORLDIYANDEN 


In the starless gloom of the Noctis Aeterna, 
Craftworld Iyanden was assaulted by the 
greatest of the Aeldari’s foes. A Slaaneshi 
Daemon host, led by the Keeper of Secrets 
N’Kisha, channelled a warp storm to 
break through the craftworld’s formidable 
protections. Once more, fighting took 
place beneath the domes and among the 
splendours of that majestic craftworld. Were 
it not for the sudden appearance of warhosts 
from all the Aeldari factions - craftworlds, 
Drukhari, Corsairs, Harlequins, Exodites 
and Ynnari - then all would have been 
lost. Despite the common-cause victory, 
however, the Aeldari remained fractured. 


SEGMENT1UVI 

DBSCURUS 


DIMM A MAI 


GOTHIC 

SECTQft 


5EGMEITUM 
' SDLAR 


DULY TERRA 


IBk 

A, 

TNADGEDDDN 

OF THE 
EMPEROR’S 
*WR4T>H 

ImW’; * 

ENTUMK 





NADGEDDDN SYSTEM 



RLD) 


ARMAGEDDON 


Through the influx of warp energies, 
the planet of Armageddon had been 
transformed into a hellscape. Daemon 
armies swept across battlefields no longer 
chained to the laws of reality. Luckily for 
the remaining Imperial armies (twenty-five 
regiments of Imperial Guard and elements 
of nine Adeptus Astartes Chapters) and 
the Orks (a variety of unknown clans), 
the Daemon legions were just as content 
to battle amongst themselves as to hunt 
down and eradicate the survivors. Due 
to communication difficulties, the exact 
numbers of extracted Imperial defenders 
are unknown. 


ST 


2EDMENTUM 

DBSCURUS 






ARMAGEDDON^ THE 

n rn ilji r 11 tm n'j. ’ MAELSTROM 

SEGMENTUMv . -■ 

SDLAR v- 

■w, 

HDLY T'ERRA 



>• 

uifir/ia 




ARMAGEDDON SYSTEM 



■,.i ■ 




(INDUSTRIAL 


MANNHEI 

(FORTRESS 


WAR IN THE RIFT 


Ever jealous of one another, the Dark 
Gods began to war amongst themselves 
in realspace. The opening campaign saw 
Tzeentch and Khorne send legions to the 
Scourge Stars seeking to destroy Nurgle’s 
growing foothold. War spread as Nurgle 
recalled his lieutenants from Ultramar and 
counter-attacked the realspace strongholds 
of his rivals. Slaanesh allied with all sides 
at different times, always furthering his 
own gains. The greatest of Daemons met in 
grinding clashes of attrition at the titanic 
Battle of Vigrid, the fighting only ending 
when all agreed to Tzeentch’s proposal to 
settle the war via a contest of champions. 


A Vt 1 1 ■ < 1 —r - i v 

f * ULTIMA ^ 

>SE TiMENTUM . ha p ex 4 .4NQM^.y § 

fMTiir^^Nii £ 


BANE 

LANDING 


THE 
SCOURGE] 
STARS 


^ULTRAMARj"X"| 

- mt—L 


THE SCOURGE STARS 

td'X 

IGHARIV \ ; NDXIAS V 

ROTTGHAVE VERMINOX 


NDXIAS SYSTEM 

+ EXCOMMUNICATE TRAITQRIS + ^ 

(MINIM 



i II AD + daemonic. 
ill Hit infesAtion+ 

WORLD), 


L KRANTESS IV 

(HIVE WORLD) \ 

+ TRATft)RIS + 

rxiAs 

(HIVE WDRLD) 


(AG 


LYAN 

I WORLD 


Jdaem°nic XmU 

INFEST AT10N+- 

* OLEUM 
(FERAL WORLD; 


RDTTGRAVE SYSTEI 


EXCOMMUNICATE TRAITQRI! 

ROTTGRAVE 

IS+ (FORGE WDRLD) 


s + CS 



{SHRINE WDRLD) 


mh^hafi +da£monic PES.TIFRIA 

WORLD) 


, FOETID Hlllt 

t/ (NAVAL BASE) 

' 4- EXCOMMUNICATE 

TRAITORIS + 





























































Identify your target. 
Concentrate your fire on it to 
the exclusion of all else. When 
it is destroyed, choose another 
target. That is the way to 
secure victory! 


The Tactica Imperium 


















f m 






f 



m i<yf d 


jM 



mm:* 



/ L f\ 


J 

■ly : 

.i, 

1 


*4 


f; 



o o «qfanv 


PLAYING THE GAME 

Welcome to the rules section of Warhammer 40,000 - a guide to playing games 
in the war-torn galaxy of the Dark Millennium. As well as including the core 
rules for engaging in tabletop warfare with your miniatures, this section is 
packed with different ways to enjoy games of Warhammer 40,000, crammed 
with inspiration and brimming with battles. 


Throughout the following pages you’ll 
find an array of different rules and 
guidelines to suit all hobbyists, from 
casual collectors who play occasional 
games with their friends, to veteran 
warriors who’ve spent years honing their 
forces for competitive tournaments. 

The core rules are everybody’s starting 
point, but as everyone enjoys the Games 
Workshop hobby in different ways, this 
section of the book also introduces three 
different ways to approach your games: 
open play, narrative play, and matched 
play. Each offers a different experience 
but it’s important to note that elements of 
each can be mixed and matched to create 
whatever kind of gaming experience 
you want - they are a gaming toolbox, 
providing inspiration and options to 


get the dice rolling and allow you to 
play with your collection of Citadel 
Miniatures on the tabletop. 

You will also find a guide to building 
battlefields, the rules for forming a 
Battle-forged army, and an introduction 
to advanced rules, which explore 
additional ways to fight your battles. So 
whether you are looking to wage war in 
one of the myriad deadly environments 
of the galaxy, play a team game, or fight 
battles as part of an escalating narrative 
campaign, there is an expansion to enable 
you to do so. A universe of war awaits 
you - read on to see short explanations 
of what you will find on these pages and 
how to use them in your games, starting 
with the essential core rules. 


0Q\ 




provide the key mechanics for everything from foot-slogging 
infantry to gigantic monsters and armour-clad war machines, 
allowing you to quickly build up from your first few simple games 
to grand spectacles of all-out war. 


between multiple different armies at once and close-run battles 
through the war-torn streets of an Imperial hive - all encompassed 
by the advanced rules. 


Whether you choose to introduce any advanced rules to 
your games, or even combine several different aspects 
in a single game, all of these optional mechanics build 
upon the core rules - they add to or provide variation 
on the core rules, rather than requiring you to learn 
a whole new game system! From huge multiplayer 
battles and sprawling sieges, to campaigns fought over 
strange alien worlds, the advanced rules will provide 
you with exciting new gaming experiences to 
suit whatever type of game you want to 
play for years to come. C 


The core rules also provide plenty of helpful clarifications, hints 
and tips, along with a single mission (the suitably titled ‘Only 
War’), which serves as a perfect introduction to gaming in the 
Warhammer 40,000 universe. Wherever you go with your games, 
the core rules will provide the foundation you need to get started, 
and be your constant gaming companion. 


Before trying too many of the diverse options offered by the 
Warhammer 40,000 gaming hobby, it’s recommended that you play 
a few games using just these rules. This will build a great grounding 
for what comes after. 


















OPEN PLAY 


The first of the three distinct ways to play Warhammer 
40,000, open play is the most free-form and adaptable. 
It can be as simple or as complex as you like - you can 
literally just pick any Citadel Miniatures you have and 
start playing. It’s as easy as that, and playing games this 
way can lead to extraordinary battles as players are free 
to put their entire collections on the battlefield to get 
the dice rolling started! Whether this leads to titanic 
clashes between huge armies that last entire weekends, 
or desperate and dramatic battles against the odds, 
the emphasis in open play is firmly on playing a fun 
wargame with whatever parts of your collections you 
wish, in whatever fashion you so choose. 

This section also contains a selection of story hooks, 
to use as inspiration for your games. With a little prior 


thought and discussion, your Warhammer 40,000 battles 
can take on a thrilling, story-driven aspect, transcending 
the simple rules of the game and becoming something 
altogether more dramatic and involving. Desperate last 
stands, vendettas between mighty heroes, courageous 
rescue missions and endless other characterful conflicts 
can easily be brought to life on the tabletop in an open 
play game. 

Open play is also an ideal way of gaming when you have 
multiple players who want to get involved in a battle all 
at once. Allowing for all kinds of variation in terms of 
team gaming, outnumbered players fighting against the 
odds, or whatever other scenario you can envision, this 
section provides you with the help you need to get the 
most out of your multiplayer games. 











NARRATIVE PLAY < PIS ,9Z > 


AN EVOLVING 
EXPERIENCE 

With three different styles 
of play to explore, dozens 
of missions to play, and an 
ever-expanding array of 
armies and Detachments 
to collect, Warhammer 
40,000 could potentially 
seem intimidating to a 
new player. Fortunately, 
by starting with the core 
rules and building up at 
an appropriate pace, you 
can enjoy your hobby in 
whatever way suits you. 

By taking your time and 
trying things out, you’ll 
soon find the combination 
that best fits your play 
style, and if things ever 
start to feel a little bit 
routine, just try out some 
new rules! 


Narrative play is based around the 
stories embedded in the background of 
Warhammer 40,000, either those in our 
books or those you write yourself. You’ll 
often find that reading up on the history 
of a particular Faction, hero or battle is 
all the inspiration you need to set up a 
game and play it. 


and backgrounds provided in this 
book and in codexes to the dramatic 
stories in Black Library’s Warhammer 
40,000 novels. 


Unlike open play, which leaves the 
impetus on the players to determine 
their own story and victory conditions, 
narrative play gives a somewhat tighter 
framework to operate in. Examples of this 
can be found in the seven new missions 
found in this section of rules. Going 
beyond the straightforward battle fought 
in the Only War scenario, games such as 
Patrol and Ambush alter the parameters 
of your games and provide players with 
differing roles and objectives where one 
plays as the attacker and the other as 
the defender. 


Perhaps you enjoyed the story of a bitter 
rivalry between two characters in the 
background, whether it be the ongoing 
feud between Commissar Yarrick and 
Ghazghkull Thraka or Wolf Lord Logan 
Grimnar’s quest for revenge upon the 
Daemon Primarch Magnus the Red. 
Maybe tales of strategy and massed 
battle bring you inspiration, stories 
of sudden ambushes, sweeping flank 
attacks and meat-grinder offensives 
through the smoke and fire of no man’s 
land. Whatever the case, narrative play 
provides guidelines and structured 
scenarios that allow you to recreate your 
favourite war stories on the tabletop. 


The additional rules provided in this 
section are intended to help with your 
own battlefield storytelling, and with a 
little experience and imagination, you 
and your opponents can quickly piece 
together your own exciting narrative 
play missions to depict whatever deadly 
scenario you wish. 


There are many places to find these 
sorts of exciting tales, from the histories 


DEATH IS OUR FINAL OFFERING TO THE EMPEROR. 


BATTLE-FORGED ARMIES ( pG24 °) 


While open play encourages gamers to place whatever models they want to on 
the tabletop, in whatever quantities they choose, both narrative and matched 
play tend to use Battle-forged armies. These forces bring additional structure 
and balance to the gaming experience. 


When selecting a Battle-forged army, you will find that there are greater 
restrictions and considerations of structure placed upon you. Some people 
will intentionally build their collections using the Battle-forged template to 
ensure that they can easily assemble a Battle-forged force for any game they 
play. Others prefer to collect however the mood takes them, and then simply 
form models from their collection into a Battle-forged army when their games 
require them to do so. Either method is equally valid, and both allow you to 
build exciting and impressive miniatures collections. 


Battle-forged armies must be organised into Detachments (groupings of units 
with specific strategic roles), twelve of which are presented in this book. With 
your army fully made up of Detachments, you will gain access to Command 
Points (pg 242), which unlock Stratagems that can be used in all Warhammer 
40,000 missions. 














MATCHED PLAY ,ps 2121 


As the name would suggest, tabletop 
wargames are just that: games to be 
enjoyed by all players involved. For 
some, this enjoyment is derived from 
assembling Battle-forged armies that they 
believe provide the optimal combination 
of units, and then pitting these armies 
against one another in balanced contests 
of strategy and skill. 


Matched play allows for armies of this 
sort to be tested against each other 
under conditions that give no particular 
advantage to either side, in order to 
see which army is strongest and which 
general is canniest. It’s a more balanced 
and controlled way of playing games, 
often favoured by those collectors who 
engage in gaming tournaments and 
similar events. Matched play is also 
a fantastic way to ensure a relatively 
balanced gaming experience for those 
who like playing at local gaming clubs or 
stores, where they may find themselves 


having pick-up games against opponents 
they have never faced before. 


This section of the rules includes a 
further twelve missions that are designed 
to compliment the rules for Battle-forged 
armies and create a gaming experience 
where both players have as equal a chance 
of securing victory as possible. 


The six Eternal War missions are the 
most stable and straightforward in 
this rulebook. Typically based around 
both players attempting to break into 
the others territory, secure control of 
objectives, or eliminate particular enemy 
targets, each one is an exciting tactical 
challenge every time you play. 


By comparison, the six Maelstrom of War 
missions are more unpredictable. These 
games use dynamic Tactical Objectives 
to randomise players’ victory conditions 
and keep games hanging in the balance. 


AND THEY SHALL KNOW NO FEAR. 



WHERE TO PLAY 

There are lots of places 
to play Warhammer 
40,000, and opponents are 
normally easy to find. If 
you are lucky enough to 
have a local gaming club 
or gaming store nearby, 
these can be great places 
to play and to meet new 
opponents and favourite 
rivals in the making. 
Alternatively, many 
collectors enjoy playing 
games with their friends, 
often building gaming 
tables at home to play 
on. Still others involve 
themselves in campaign 
events and tournaments, 
spending whole weekends 
playing game after game 
against many opponents. 


173 




A *1 


% r 









PROFILES 


UNIT COMPOSITION 


ABILITIES 


WEAPONS 


FACTION KEYWORDS 


KEYWORDS 


Lord of Contagion 


Chaos, Nurgle, Heretic Asia rtfs, Death Guard 


Infantry, Terminator, Character, Lord of Conta< 


0 


A SMALL MIND HAS NO ROOM FOR DOUBT. 


The warriors, monsters and war machines that fight for control of the galaxy are incredibly diverse, each 
with their own style of waging war. Each unit has a datasheet that lists the characteristics, wargear and 
abilities of the models in that unit - here we explain what some of it means, while the core rules (over the 
page) explain how it’s all used in the game. 


1. Unit Name 

Models move and fight in units, 
which can have one or more 
models. Here you’ll find the name 
of the unit. 

2. Battlefield Role 

This is typically used when making 
a Battle-forged army (pg 240). 

3. Power Rating 

The higher this is, the more 
powerful the unit! You can 
determine the Power Level of 
your entire army by adding up the 
Power Ratings of all the units in 
your army. 


4. Profiles 

These contain the following 
characteristics that tell you how 
mighty the models in the unit are: 

Move (M): This is the speed at 
which a model moves across 
the battlefield. 

Weapon Skill (WS): This tells you 
a model’s skill at hand-to-hand 
fighting. If a model has a Weapon 
Skill of ‘-’ it is unable to fight in 
melee and cannot make close 
combat attacks at all. 

Ballistic Skill (BS): This shows how 
accurate a model is when shooting 


with ranged weapons. If a model 
has a Ballistic Skill of‘-’ it has no 
proficiency with ranged weapons 
and cannot make shooting attacks 
at all. 

Strength (S): This indicates how 
strong a model is and how likely 
it is to inflict damage in hand-to- 
hand combat. 

Toughness (T): This reflects 
the model’s resilience against 
physical harm. 

Wounds (W): Wounds show how 
much damage a model can sustain 
before it succumbs to its injuries. 


Disgustingly Resilient (pg 17) 

Nurgle^ Gift: All Death Guard models within 7" of a Lord of Contagion are 
surrounded by a deadly aura of plague and disease. Roll a dice for each enemy unit that 
is within 1" of such a model at the start of your turn. On a roll of 4+, that unit suffers a 
mortal wound. 

Cataphractii Armour: A Lord of Contagion has a 4+ invulnerable save, but you must 
halve the result of the dice rolled when determining how far this model Advances. 

Teleport Strike: When you set up a Lord of Contagion during deployment, he can be set 
up in a teleportarium chamber instead of being placed on the battlefield. If he does so, he 
can use a teleport strike to arrive on the battlefield at the end of any of your Movement 
phases; when he does so set him up anywhere that is more than 9" from any enemy models. 


RANGE 


TYPE 


ABILITIES 


Plague Weapon (pg 17) 


WEAPON 

PJ igiii’f tape r 


WARGEAR 


A Lord of Contagion is armed 
with a plaguereaper. 


mm 


DATASHEETS 




































Attacks (A): This tells you how many 
times a model can strike blows in hand- 
to-hand combat. 

Leadership (Ld): This reveals how 
courageous, determined or self- 
controlled a model is. 

Save (Sv): This indicates the protection a 
model’s armour gives. 

5. Unit Composition 


Strength (S): How likely the weapon is to 
inflict damage. If a weapon’s Strength lists 
‘User’, it is equal to the wielder’s current 
Strength. If a weapon lists a modifier 
such as ‘+1’ or x2’, you should modify 
the user’s current Strength characteristic 
as shown to determine the weapon’s 
Strength. For example, if a weapon’s 
Strength was x2’, and the user had a 
Strength characteristic of 6, that weapon 
has Strength 12. 


MODIFYING 

CHARACTERISTICS 

Some large models’ 
characteristics can change 
as the model suffers 
damage - look at such a 
model’s remaining wounds 
and consult the appropriate 
row of the chart on their 
datasheet to determine its 
current characteristics. 


This tells you what models are in the unit. 

6. Wargear 

This covers the basic weapons and 
equipment the models are armed with. 

7. Abilities 

Many units have exciting special abilities 
that are not covered by the core rules; 
these will be described here. 

8. Weapons 

The weapons that a unit comes equipped 
with are described using a set of 
characteristics as follows: 

Range: How far the weapon can shoot. 
Weapons with a range of‘Melee’ can 
only be used in hand-to-hand combat. 

All other weapons are referred to as 
ranged weapons. 

Type: These are all explained under 
the Shooting and Fight phases of the 
core rules. 


Armour Penetration (AP): How good it 
is at getting through armour. 

Damage (D): The amount of damage 
inflicted by a successful hit. 

Other weapons, for example those a 
unit may take as an optional choice, are 
typically described elsewhere, such as in 
a codex. 

9. Keywords 

All datasheets have a list of keywords, 
sometimes separated into Faction 
keywords and other keywords. The former 
can be used as a guide to help decide 
which models to include in your army, 
but otherwise both sets of keywords are 
functionally the same. Sometimes a rule 
will say that it applies to models that have 
a specific keyword. For example, a rule 
might say that it applies to ‘all ADEPTUS 
ASTARTES models’. This means it would 
only apply to models that have the Adeptus 
Astartes keyword on their datasheet. 


o 

* 


WARHAMMER 40,000 CODEXES 

So now you know what a datasheet is and how it works - in conjunction with 
the core rules that follow (plus your Citadel Miniatures, battlefield, dice and tape 
measure, of course!), you’ve got everything you need to start playing games of 
Warhammer 40,000 and dive into epic battle. 

But where do you find datasheets? Well, when you buy a box of Citadel Miniatures 
they’ll be in the box with them, and they are also present in codexes. A codex is the 
ultimate resource for your chosen army (or armies!), containing datasheets for all 
the miniatures that are part of a particular Faction. But that’s not all - in codexes 
you’ll also find army-specific special rules that reflect the character of the army, 
exciting Warlord Traits, Stratagems, wargear, and even unique relics. 


Each codex is also filled with a wealth of inspirational background material, 
organisational information, stunning art and miniatures photography, colour 
guides and heraldry, all of which provide context for how a Faction works in the 
Warhammer 40,000 universe. Head over to games-workshop.com to find out more. 


You may also encounter 
abilities and rules that 
modify a characteristic. All 
modifiers are cumulative, 
though you should 
apply any multiplication 
or division to the 
characteristic (rounding 
fractions up) before 
applying any addition 
or subtraction. 

You may encounter a 
characteristic that is a 
random value instead of 
a number. For example, a 
Move characteristic might 
be 2D6", or an Attacks 
value might be D6. When 
a unit with a random Move 
characteristic is selected 
to move, determine 
the entire unit’s move 
distance by rolling the 
indicated number of dice 
(pg 176). For all other 
characteristics, roll to 
determine the value on an 
individual - per-model - 
basis each time the unit 
makes attacks, inflicts 
damage, and so on. Note 
that, regardless of the 
source, characteristics of 
‘-’ can never be modified, 
and the Strength, 
Toughness and Leadership 
characteristics of a model 
can never be modified 
below 1. 


HOPE IS A LUXURY. 









176 



TOOLS OF WAR 

In order to fight a battle, 
you will require a tape 
measure and some dice. 


Distances in Warhammer 
40,000 are measured in 
inches (") between the 
closest points of the bases 
of the models you’re 
measuring to and from. If 
a model does not have a 
base, such is the case with 
many vehicles, measure to 
and from the closest point 
of that model’s hull instead. 
You can measure distances 
whenever you wish. 


Warhammer 40,000 uses 
six-sided dice, sometimes 
abbreviated to D6. Some 
rules refer to 2D6, 3D6 
and so on - in such cases, 
roll that many D6s and 
add the results together. 

If a rule requires you to 
roll a D3, roll a dice and 
halve the total. When 
halving any dice roll, 
round fractions up before 
applying modifiers (if any) 
to the result. All modifiers 
are cumulative. If a rule 
requires a dice roll of, for 
example, 3 or more, this is 
often abbreviated to 3+. 


EDRE RULES 


Warhammer 40,000 puts you in command of a force of mighty warriors and war 
machines. The core rules on these pages contain everything you need to know in 
order to use your Citadel Miniatures collection to wage glorious battle across the 
war-torn galaxy. 


MODELS & DATASHEETS 

The rules and characteristics for all 
models, and some terrain features, are 
presented on datasheets, which you will 
need in order to use the models in battle. 


UNITS 

Models move and fight in units, made 
up of one or more models. A unit must 
be set up and finish any sort of move 
as a group, with every model within 2" 
horizontally, and 6" vertically, of at least 
one other model from their unit: this is 
called unit coherency. If anything causes 
a unit to become split up during a battle, 
it must re-establish its unit coherency the 
next time it moves. 


THE 

BATTLE ROUND 

Warhammer 40,000 is played in 
a series of battle rounds. During 
each battle round, both players 
have a turn. The same player 
always takes the first turn in each 
battle round - the mission you are 
playing will tell you which player 
this is. Each turn consists of a 
series of phases, which must be 
resolved in order. The phases are 
as follows: 





1. MOVEMENT PHASE 

Move any units that are 
capable of doing so. 


2. PSYCHIC PHASE 

Psykers can use powerful 
mental abilities. 


3. SHOOTING PHASE 

Your units may shoot 
enemy units. 


4. CHARGE PHASE 

Your units may move into close 
combat against enemy units. 


5, FIGHT PHASE 

Both players’ units pile in and 
attack with melee weapons. 


6. MORALE PHASE 

Test the courage of 
depleted units. 


Once a player’s turn has ended, 
their opponent then starts their 
turn. Once both players have 
completed a turn, the battle round 
has been completed and the next 
one begins, and so on, until the 
battle is concluded. 


ONLY FOOLS FAIL IN THEIR DUTIES. 
























1. MOVEMENT PHASE 


The ground shakes to the tread of marching feet and the growl of engines as armies 
advance across the battlefield and vie for advantageous positions. 



Start your Movement phase by picking 
one of your units and moving each model 
in that unit until you’ve moved all the 
models you want to. You can then pick 
another unit to move, until you have 
moved as many of your units as you wish. 
No model can be moved more than once 
in each Movement phase. 


Enemy Models 


All models in the same army are 
friendly models. Models controlled 
by an opposing player are enemy 
models. When you move a model in the 
Movement phase, it may not be moved 
within 1" of any enemy models. 


Falling Back 


Moving 

A model can be moved in any direction, 
to a distance, in inches, equal to or less 
than the Move characteristic on its 
datasheet. No part of the model’s base 
(or hull) can move further than this. It 
cannot be moved through other models 
or through terrain features such as walls, 
but can be moved vertically in order to 
climb or traverse any scenery. 


If the datasheet for a model says it can 
FLY, it can move across models and 
terrain as if they were not there. 



Minimum Move 

Some models that can FLY have a Move 
characteristic consisting of two values. 
The first is the model’s minimum speed 
- in the Movement phase, all parts of 
the model’s base must end the move at 
least that far from where they started. 

The second is its maximum speed - no 
part of the model’s base can be moved 
further than this. If a model cannot make 
its minimum move, or is forced to move 
off the battlefield because of its minimum 
speed, it is destroyed and removed from 
the battlefield - the model has either 
stalled and crashed or been forced to 
abandon the battle. 


Units starting the Movement phase 
within 1" of an enemy unit can either 
remain stationary or Fall Back. If you 
choose to Fall Back, the unit must end its 
move more than 1" away from all enemy 
units. If a unit Falls Back, it cannot 
Advance (see below), or charge (pg 182) 
later that turn. A unit that Falls Back 
also cannot shoot later that turn unless it 
can FLY. 

Advancing 

When you pick a unit to move in the 
Movement phase, you can declare that 
it will Advance. Roll a dice and add the 


0 



result to the Move characteristics of all 
models in the unit for that Movement 
phase. A unit that Advances can’t shoot 
or charge later that turn. 


‘SHALL WE LIE DOWN MEEKLY 
AS A LAMB BEFORE THE 
RAVENING WOLF OR SHALL WE 
OPPOSE SUCH HORRORS 
AS THE GALAXY WILL 
THROW AT US WITH PROUD 
CONTEMPT? SUFFER NOT THE 
BEASTS AND ABOMINATIONS 
OF OTHER WORLDS TO LIVE IN 
OUR IMPERIUMf 


- Orthas Gregor an, 
Chief Demagogue 
of the Forlan Synod 


WOBBLY MODEL 
SYNDROME 

Sometimes you may find 
that a particular piece of 
terrain makes it hard to 
put a model exactly where 
you want. If you delicately 
balance it in place, it is 
very likely to fall as soon 
as somebody nudges the 
table, leaving your painted 
model damaged or even 
broken. In cases like this, 
we find it is perfectly 
acceptable to leave the 
model in a safer position, 
as long as both players have 
agreed and know its ‘actual’ 
location. If, later on, your 
enemy is considering 
shooting the model, you 
will have to hold it back in 
the proper place so they 
can check if it is visible. 


REINFORCEMENTS 

Many units have the 
ability to be set up on 
the battlefield mid-turn, 
sometimes by using 
teleporters, grav chutes or 
other, more esoteric means. 
Typically, this happens at 
the end of the Movement 
phase, but it can also 
happen during other 
phases. Units that are set 
up in this manner cannot 
move or Advance further 
during the turn they arrive 
- their entire Movement 
phase is used in deploying 
to the battlefield - but they 
can otherwise act normally 
(shoot, charge, etc.) for the 
rest of their turn. Units that 
arrive as reinforcements 
count as having moved 
in their Movement phase 
for all rules purposes, 
such as shooting Heavy 
weapons (pg 180). Any 
unit that has not arrived on 
the battlefield by the end of 
the battle counts as having 
been destroyed. 


NEGOTIATION IS SURRENDER. 






PSYCHIC SEQUENCE 

1. Choose psyker and power 

2. Make Psychic test 

3. Enemy takes Deny the 
Witch test 

4. Resolve psychic power 


Perils of the Warp 

If you roll a double 1 or a double 
6 when taking a Psychic test, the 
psyker immediately suffers Perils 
of the Warp. The psyker suffers 
D3 mortal wounds as the forces 
of the Daemon-haunted warp 
claw at their mind. If the psyker 
is slain by Perils of the Warp, the 
power they were attempting to 
manifest automatically fails and 
each unit within 6" immediately 
suffers D3 mortal wounds, as the 
psyker is dragged into the warp 
or else detonates in a burst of 
empyric feedback. 


Smite 

Smite has a warp charge value of 
5. If manifested, the closest visible 
enemy unit within 18" of the 
psyker suffers D3 mortal wounds 
(pg 181). If the result of the Psychic 
test was more than 10, the target 
suffers D6 mortal wounds instead. 


RE-ROLLS 

Some rules allow you to 
re-roll a dice roll, which 
means you get to roll 
some or all of the dice 
again. You can never 
re-roll a dice more than 
once, and re-rolls happen 
before modifiers (if any) 
are applied. 

ROLL-OFFS 

Some rules instruct players 
to roll off. To do so, both 
players roll a D6, and 
whoever scores highest 
wins the roll-off. In the 
case of a tie, both players 
re-roll their D6; this is the 
only time players can re¬ 
roll a re-roll - if the second 
and subsequent rolls are 
also tied, keep on rolling 
until a winner is decided. 

SEQUENCING 

While playing Warhammer 
40,000, you’ll occasionally 
find that two or more rules 
are to be resolved at the 
same time - normally ‘at 
the start of the Movement 
phase’ or ‘before the battle 
begins’. When this happens 
during the game, the player 
whose turn it is chooses the 
order. If these things occur 
before or after the game, 
or at the start or end of a 
battle round, the players 
roll off and the winner 
decides in what order the 
rules are resolved. 


Z. PSYCHIC PHASE 

Warrior mystics and sorcerers wield the strange power of the warp to aid their allies 
and destroy their foes. Harnessing this force is not without risk, however, and with 
the smallest mistake, the effort can spell doom for all nearby. 


3. Deny the Witch Tests 

A psyker can attempt to resist a psychic 
power that has been manifested by an 
enemy model within 24" by taking a 
Deny the Witch test - this takes place 
immediately, even though it is not your 
turn. To do so, roll 2D6. If the total is 
greater than the result of the Psychic test 
that manifested the power, it has been 
resisted and its effects are negated. Only 
one attempt to deny each successfully 
manifested psychic power can be made 
each turn, regardless of the number of 
psykers you have within 24" of the enemy 
model manifesting the psychic power. 

4. Resolve Psychic Power 

So long as the Psychic test was successful, 
the psyker did not die as a result of the 
Perils of the Warp, and the attempt was 
not thwarted by a Deny the Witch test, 
then you may resolve the effect of the 
psychic power, which will be described in 
the power itself. 




1. Choose Psyker and Power 

Some models are noted as being a 
PSYKER on their datasheet. Psykers can 
manifest their otherworldly abilities and 
attempt to deny enemy sorceries. The 
powers a psyker knows, and the number 
of powers they can attempt to manifest or 
deny each Psychic phase, are detailed on 
their datasheet. 

Psychic Powers 

Unless stated otherwise, all psykers know 
the Smite psychic power, listed below. 
Some know other powers instead of, 
or in addition to, Smite - the model’s 
datasheets and other supplementary rules 
you are using will make it clear which 
powers each psyker knows. If a psyker 
generates their powers before the battle, 
do so immediately before either player 
starts to deploy their army. 


2. Make Psychic Test 

A psyker can attempt to manifest a 
psychic power they know by taking a 
Psychic test. To do so, roll 2D6. If the 
total is equal to or greater than that 
power’s warp charge value, the power is 
successfully manifested. A psyker cannot 
attempt to manifest the same psychic 
power more than once in a turn. 


A MIND WITHOUT PURPOSE WILL WANDER IN DARK PLACES. 











SHOOTING SEQUENCE 

1, Choose unit to shoot with 

2, Choose targets 

3, Choose ranged weapon 

4, Resolve attacks 

* Make hit roll 

* Make wound roll 

* Enemy allocates 
wound 

* Enemy makes 
saving throw 

* Inflict damage 


1. Choose Unit to Shoot With 

In your Shooting phase you can shoot 
with models armed with ranged weapons. 
First, you must pick one of your units 
to shoot with. You may not pick a unit 
that Advanced or Fell Back this turn, or 
a unit that is within 1" of an enemy unit. 
Unless otherwise stated, each model in 
the unit attacks with all of the ranged 
weapons it is armed with. After all of the 
unit’s models have fired, you can choose 
another unit to shoot with, until all 
eligible units that you want to shoot with 
have done so. 

2. Choose Targets 

Having chosen a shooting unit, you must 
pick the target unit, or units, for the 
attacks. In order to target an enemy unit, 
a model from that unit must be within 
the Range of the weapon being used (as 
listed on its profile) and be visible to the 
shooting model. If unsure, stoop down 
and get a look from behind the shooting 
model to see if any part of the target is 
visible. For the purposes of determining 
visibility, a model can see through other 
models in its own unit. 



3. SHOOTING PHASE 

Guns thunder and shrapnel falls from the sky. Muzzle flare shines through the 
gloom in bursts, beams of las-fire illuminate the fog of war, and spent ammunition 
cartridges and power cells are left discarded across the battlefield. 


3. Choose Ranged Weapon 

The weapons a model has are listed 
on its datasheet. If a model has several 
weapons, it can shoot all of them at the 
same target, or it can shoot each at a 
different enemy unit. Similarly, if a unit 
contains more than one model, they can 
shoot at the same, or different targets as 
you choose. In either case, declare how 
you will split the shooting unit’s shots 
before any dice are rolled, and resolve 
all the shots against one target before 
moving on to the next. 

Number of Attacks 

Each time a model shoots a ranged 
weapon, it will make a number of attacks. 
You roll one dice for each attack being 
made. The number of attacks a model 
can make with a weapon, and therefore 
the number of dice you can roll, is found 
on the weapon’s profile, along with the 
weapon’s type. A weapon’s type can 
impact the number of attacks it can make 
(see overleaf). 


Characters 

Some models are noted as being a 
CHARACTER on their datasheet. 
These heroes, officers, prophets 
and warlords are powerful 
individuals that can have a great 
impact on the course of a battle. 
The swirling maelstrom of the 
battlefield can make it difficult 
to pick out such individuals as 
targets, however. A CHARACTER 
can only be chosen as a target in 
the Shooting phase if they are the 
closest visible enemy unit to the 
model that is shooting. This does 
not apply to CHARACTERS with 
a Wounds characteristic of 10 or 
more, due to their sheer size. 


o 


I 

4 


Models cannot target enemy units that 
are within 1" of friendly models - the risk 
of hitting your own troops is too great. 




FAST DICE 
ROLLING 

The rules for resolving 
attacks (pg 181) have been 
written assuming you will 
make them one at a time. 
However, it is possible to 
speed up your battles by 
rolling the dice for similar 
attacks together. In order 
to make several attacks at 
once, all of the attacks must 
have the same Ballistic Skill 
(if it’s a shooting attack) or 
the same Weapon Skill (if 
it’s a close combat attack). 
They must also have the 
same Strength, Armour 
Penetration and Damage 
characteristics, and they 
must be directed at the 
same unit. If this is the 
case, make all of the hit 
rolls at the same time, then 
all of the wound rolls. Your 
opponent can then allocate 
the wounds one at a time, 
making the saving throws 
and suffering damage 
each time as appropriate. 
Remember, if the target 
unit contains a model 
that has already lost any 
wounds, they must allocate 
further wounds to this 
model until either it is slain, 
or all the wounds have been 
saved or resolved. 

AURA ABILITIES 

Some units - usually 
CHARACTERS - have 
abilities that affect certain 
models within a given 
range. Unless the ability in 
question says otherwise, a 
model with a rule like this 
is always within range of 
the effect. 

For example, a Lord of 
Contagion has the Nurgle’s 
Gift ability, which affects all 
DEATH GUARD models 
within 7" of him. As the 
Lord of Contagion is also a 
DEATH GUARD model, 
he benefits from this ability 
as well. 




ANALYSIS IS THE BANE OF CONVICTION. 





THE MOST 
IMPORTANT RULE 

In a game as detailed 
and wide-ranging as 
Warhammer 40,000, there 
may be times when you 
are not sure exactly how to 
resolve a situation that has 
come up during play. When 
this happens, have a quick 
chat with your opponent 
and apply the solution that 
makes the most sense to 
both of you (or seems the 
most fun!). If no single 
solution presents itself, you 
and your opponent should 
roll off, and whoever rolls 
highest gets to choose what 
happens. Then you can get 
on with the fighting! 


Weapon Types 

There are five types of ranged weapon: 
Assault, Heavy, Rapid Fire, Grenade and 
Pistol. A model shooting one of these 
weapons can make a number of attacks 
equal to the number written on its profile 
after its type. For example, a model firing 
an ‘Assault T weapon can make 1 attack 
with that weapon; a model firing a ‘Heavy 
3’ weapon can make 3 attacks, etc. 

If a weapon has more than one attack, it 
must make all of its attacks against the 
same target unit. 

Each type of ranged weapon also has an 
additional rule that, depending upon the 
situation, might affect the accuracy of the 
weapon or when it can be fired. These are 
as follows: 

ASSAULT 

Assault weapons fire so rapidly or 
indiscriminately that they can be shot 
from the hip as warriors dash forwards 
into combat. 

A model with an Assault weapon can fire 
it even if it Advanced earlier that turn. If 
it does so, you must subtract 1 from any 
hit rolls made when firing that weapon 
this turn. 

HEAVY 

Heavy weapons are the biggest and 
deadliest guns on the battlefield, but 
require reloading, careful set-up or 
bracing to fire at full effect. 

If a model with a Heavy weapon moved 
in its preceding Movement phase, you 
must subtract 1 from any hit rolls made 
when firing that weapon this turn. 


RAPID FIRE 

Rapid Fire weapons are versatile 
weapons capable of aimed single shots 
at long range or controlled bursts of fire 
at close quarters. 

A model firing a Rapid Fire weapon 
doubles the number of attacks it makes 
if its target is within half the weapon’s 
maximum range. 

GRENADE 

Grenades are handheld explosive 
devices that a warrior throws at the 
enemy while their squad mates provide 
covering fire. 

Each time a unit shoots, a single model in 
the unit that is equipped with Grenades 
may throw one instead of firing any 
other weapon. 

PISTOL 

Pistols are carried one-handed and 
can even be used in a melee to shoot 
at point-blank range. Many warriors 
carry one as a sidearm, alongside their 
primary weapon. 

A model can fire a Pistol even if there are 
enemy units within 1" of its own unit, but 
it must target the closest enemy unit. In 
such circumstances, the model can shoot 
its Pistol even if other friendly units are 
within 1" of the same enemy unit. 

Each time a model equipped with both a 
Pistol and another type of ranged weapon 
(e.g. a Pistol and a Rapid Fire weapon) 
shoots, it can either shoot with its 
Pistol(s) or with all of its other weapons. 
Choose which it will fire (Pistols or non- 
Pistols) before making hit rolls. 


‘AS OUR BODIES ARE ARMOURED WITH ADAMANT, 

OUR SOULS ARE PROTECTED WITH LOYALTY. 

AS OUR BOLTERS ARE CHARGED WITH DEATH FOR THE EMPEROR’S 
ENEMIES, OUR THOUGHTS ARE CHARGED WITH WISDOM. 

AS OUR RANKS ADVANCE, SO DOES OUR DEVOTION, 

FOR ARE WE NOT THE SPACE MARINES? 

ARE WE NOT THE CHOSEN OF THE EMPEROR, 

HIS LOYAL SERVANTS UNTO DEATH?’ 




LOOK UPON THE EMPEROR’S WORKS AND TREMBLE! 










I 


w 


i 


J jffiW 



4. Resolve Attacks 

Attacks can be made one at a time, 
or, in some cases, you can roll 
for multiple attacks together. The 
following sequence is used to make 
attacks one at a time: 


1. Hit Roll: Each time a model 
makes an attack, roll a dice. If the 
roll is equal to or greater than the 
attacking model’s Ballistic Skill 
characteristic, then it scores a 
hit with the weapon it is using. If 
not, the attack fails and the attack 
sequence ends. A roll of 1 always 
fails, irrespective of any modifiers 
that may apply. 


2. Wound Roll: If an attack scores 
a hit, you will then need to roll 
another dice to see if the attack 
successfully wounds the target. 
The roll required is determined 
by comparing the attacking 
weapon’s Strength characteristic 
with the target’s Toughness 
characteristic, as shown on the 
following table: 


WOUND ROLL 

ATTACK’S STRENGTH 

VS TARGET’S 
TOUGHNESS 

DG ROLL 
REQUIRED 

Is the Strength 
TWICE (or more) 
than the Toughness? 

2+ 

Is the Strength 
GREATER 
than the Toughness? 

3+ 

Is the Strength 
EQUAL 

to the Toughness? 

4+ 

Is the Strength 
LOWER 

than the Toughness? 

5+ 

Is the Strength 
HALF (or less) 
than the Toughness? 

6+ 


If the roll is less than the required 
number, the attack fails and the 
attack sequence ends. A roll of 1 
always fails, irrespective of any 
modifiers that may apply. 


3. Allocate Wound: If an attack 
successfully wounds the target, 
the player commanding the 
target unit allocates the wound to 
any model in the unit (the chosen 
model does not have to be within 
range or visible to the attacking 
unit). If a model in the target 
unit has already lost any wounds, 
the damage must be allocated to 
that model. 


4. Saving Throw: The player 
commanding the target unit 
then makes a saving throw by 
rolling a dice and modifying the 
roll by the Armour Penetration 
characteristic of the weapon 
that caused the damage. For 
example, if the weapon has an 
Armour Penetration of -1, then 
1 is subtracted from the saving 
throw roll. If the result is equal 
to, or greater than, the Save 
characteristic of the model the 
wound was allocated to, then 
the damage is prevented and the 
attack sequence ends. If the result 
is less than the model’s Save 
characteristic, then the saving 
throw fails and the model suffers 
damage. A roll of 1 always fails, 
irrespective of any modifiers that 
may apply. 


5. Inflict Damage: The damage 
inflicted is equal to the Damage 
characteristic of the weapon used 
in the attack. A model loses one 
wound for each point of damage 
it suffers. If a model’s wounds 
are reduced to 0, it is either slain 
or destroyed and removed from 
play. If a model loses several 
wounds from a single attack and 
is destroyed, any excess damage 
inflicted by that attack is lost and 
has no effect. 



Invulnerable Saves 

Some models possess supernatural reflexes or 
are protected by force fields that grant them 
an invulnerable save. Each time a wound is 
allocated to a model with an invulnerable 
save, you can choose to use either its normal 
Save characteristic or its invulnerable save, 
but not both. If a model has more than one 
invulnerable save, it can only use one of 
them - choose which it will use. If you use a 
model’s invulnerable save, it is never modified 
by a weapon’s Armour Penetration value. 



Terrain and Cover 

The battlefields of the far future are littered 
with terrain features such as ruins, craters 
and twisted copses. Models can take shelter 
within such terrain features to gain protection 
against incoming weapons’ fire. 


If a unit is entirely on or within any terrain 
feature, add 1 to its models’ saving throws 
against shooting attacks to represent the 
cover received from the terrain (invulnerable 
saves are unaffected). Units gain no benefit 
from cover in the Fight phase (pg 182). 


e 


Mortal Wounds 

Some attacks inflict mortal wounds - these 
are so powerful that no armour or force field 
can withstand their fury. Each mortal wound 
inflicts one point of damage on the target 
unit. Do not make a wound roll or saving 
throw (including invulnerable saves) against a 
mortal wound - just allocate it as you would 
any other wound and inflict damage to a 
model in the target unit as described above. 
Unlike normal attacks, excess damage from 
attacks that inflict mortal wounds is not lost. 
Instead keep allocating damage to another 
model in the target unit until either all the 
damage has been allocated or the target unit 
is destroyed. 


THOUGHT FOR THE DAY: KNOWLEDGE IS TO BE FEARED! 


If HP 





















4. CHARGE PHASE 

Warriors hurl themselves into battle to slay with 
blade, hammer and claw. 


,0 

t 

a 


CHARGE SEQUENCE 

1. Choose unit to charge with 

2. Choose targets 

3. Enemy resolves Overwatch 

4. Roll 2D6 and make charge move 


1. Choose Unit to Charge With 

Any of your units within 12" of the enemy in your Charge 
phase can make a charge move. You may not choose a 
unit that Advanced or Fell Back this turn, nor one that 
started the Charge phase within 1" of an enemy. 

2. Choose Targets 

Once you have chosen an eligible unit, select one or more 
enemy units within 12" of them as the target(s) of the 
charge. Each target unit can then attempt to fire Overwatch. 

3. Overwatch 

Each time a charge is declared against a unit, the target unit 
can immediately fire Overwatch at the would-be attacker. 

A target unit can potentially fire Overwatch several 
times a turn, though it cannot fire if there are any enemy 
models within 1" of it. Overwatch is resolved like a normal 
shooting attack (albeit one resolved in the enemy’s Charge 
phase) and uses all the normal rules except that a 6 is 
always required for a successful hit roll, irrespective of the 
firing model’s Ballistic Skill or any modifiers. 


4. Make Charge Move 


s 


After any Overwatch has been resolved, roll 2D6. Each 
model in the charging unit can move up to this number 
of inches - this is their charge distance this turn. The 
first model you move must finish within 1" of an enemy 
model from one of the target units. No models in the 
charging unit can move within 1" of an enemy unit that 
was not a target of its charge. If this is impossible, the 
charge fails and no models in the charging unit move 
this phase. Once you’ve moved all the models in the 
charging unit, choose another eligible unit and repeat 
the above procedure until all eligible units that you want 
to make charge moves have done so. No unit can be 
selected to charge more than once in each Charge phase. 


5. FIGHT PHASE 

Carnage engulfs the battlefield as the warring armies 
tear each other apart. 


FIGHT SEQUENCE 

1 - Choose unit to fight with 

2. Pile in up to 3" 

3. Choose targets 

4. Choose melee weapon 

5. Resolve close combat attacks 

* Make hit roll 

* Make wound roll 

* Enemy allocates wound 

* Enemy makes saving throw 

* Inflict damage 

6. Consolidate up to 3” 


1. Choose Unit to Fight With 

Any unit that charged or has models within 1" of an 
enemy unit can be chosen to fight in the Fight phase. 

This includes all units, not just those controlled by the 
player whose turn it is. All units that charged this turn 
fight first. The player whose turn it is picks the order 
in which these units fight. After all charging units have 
fought, the players alternate choosing eligible units to 
fight with (starting with the player whose turn it is) until 
all eligible units on both sides have fought once each. No 
unit can be selected to fight more than once in each Fight 
phase. If one player runs out of eligible units, the other 
player completes all of their remaining fights, one unit 
after another. A fight is resolved in the following steps: 

2. Pile In 

You may move each model in the unit up to 3" - this 
move can be in any direction so long as the model ends 
the move closer to the nearest enemy model. 

3. Choose Targets 

First, you must pick the target unit, or units, for the 
attacks. To target an enemy unit, the attacking model 
must either be within 1" of that unit, or within 1" of 
another model from its own unit that is itself within 1" 
of that enemy unit. This represents the unit fighting in 
two ranks. Models that charged this turn can only target 
enemy units that they charged in the previous phase. 


Heroic Intervention 

After the enemy has completed all of their charge moves, any of 
your CHARACTERS that are within 3" of an enemy unit may 


perform a Heroic Intervention. Any that do so can move up to 3", 
so long as they end the move closer to the nearest enemy model. 



If a model can make more than one close combat attack 
(see right), it can split them between eligible target units 
as you wish. Similarly if a unit contains more than one 
model, each can target a different enemy unit. In either 
case, declare how you will split the unit’s close combat 
attacks before any dice are rolled, and resolve all attacks 
against one target before moving on to the next. 


VICTORY IS THE PROMISE OF THE EMPEROR’S COMMAND. 

















Number of Attacks 

The number of close combat attacks a model makes 
against its target is determined by its Attacks 
characteristic. You roll one dice for each close combat 
attack being made. For example, if a model has an 
Attacks characteristic of 2, it can make 2 close combat 
attacks and you can therefore roll 2 dice. 


4. Choose Melee Weapon 

Each time a model makes a close combat attack, it uses a 
melee weapon - the weapons a model is equipped with 
are described on its datasheet. If a datasheet does not list 
any melee weapons, the model is assumed to fight with a 
close combat weapon, which has the following profile: 


WEAPON 

RANGE 

TYPE 

s 

AP 0 

Close combat weapon 

Melee 

Melee 

User 

1 


If a model has more than one melee weapon, choose 
which it will use before rolling the dice. If a model has 
more than one melee weapon and can make several 
close combat attacks, it can split its attacks between 
these weapons however you wish - declare how you will 
divide the attacks before any dice are rolled. 


5. Resolve Close Combat Attacks 

Close combat attacks can be made one at a time, or 
in some cases you can roll the dice for a number of 
attacks together. The attack sequence for making close 
combat attacks is identical to that used for shooting 
attacks (pg 181) except you use the model’s Weapon Skill 
characteristic instead of its Ballistic Skill to make hit rolls. 


6. Consolidate 

You may move each model in the unit up to 3" - this 
move can be in any direction so long as the model ends 
the move closer to the nearest enemy model. 


G. MORALE PHASE 


Even the bravest heart may quail when the horrors of 
battle take their toll. 


In the Morale phase, starting with the player whose turn 
it is, players must take Morale tests for units from their 
army that have had models slain during the turn. 


To take a Morale test, roll a dice and add the number 
of models from the unit that have been slain this turn. 

If the result of the Morale test exceeds the highest 
Leadership characteristic in the unit, the test is failed. 
For each point that the test is failed by, one model 
in that unit must flee and is removed from play. You 
choose which models flee from the units you command. 





TRANSPORTS 

Some models are noted as being a TRANSPORT on their 
datasheet - these vehicles ferry warriors to the front line, 
providing them with speed and protection. The following rules 
describe how units can embark and disembark from transports, 
and how they are used to move their passengers across the 
battlefield. Note that a unit cannot both embark and disembark in 
the same turn. 


Transport Capacity: All transports have a transport capacity 
listed on their datasheet. This determines how many friendly 
models, and of what type, they can carry. A model’s transport 
capacity can never be exceeded. 


When you set up a transport, units can start the battle embarked 
within it instead of being set up separately - declare what units are 
embarked inside the transport when you set it up. 


Embark: If all models in a unit end their move within 3" of a 
friendly transport, they can embark within it. Remove the unit 
from the battlefield and place it to one side - it is now embarked 
inside the transport. 


Embarked units cannot normally do anything or be affected in any 
way whilst they are embarked. Unless specifically stated, abilities 
that affect other units within a certain range have no effect whilst 
the unit that has the ability is embarked. 


If a transport is destroyed, any units embarked within it 
immediately disembark (see below) before the transport model 
is removed, but you must then roll one dice for each model you 
just set up on the battlefield. For each roll of 1, a model that 
disembarked (your choice) is slain. 


Disembark: Any unit that begins its Movement phase embarked 
within a transport can disembark before the transport moves. 
When a unit disembarks, set it up on the battlefield so that all of 
its models are within 3" of the transport and not within 1" of any 
enemy models - any disembarking model that cannot be set up in 
this way is slain. 


Units that disembark can then act normally (move, shoot, charge, 
fight, etc.) during the remainder of their turn. Note though, 
that even if you don’t move disembarking units further in your 
Movement phase, they still count as having moved for any rules 
purposes, such as shooting Heavy weapons (pg 180). 


mgm; 


L t 







1 


m 


& 

y 


* 


'S: 


t 




WE ARE CERTAIN ONLY OF DEATH. 


W; mm 

183 














EXAMPLE TURN 

On these pages you will find an example turn of Warhammer 40,000. All six phases of a player’s turn are described. In the examples 
shown below, it is the Death Guard player’s turn, and we join the battle just as they are about to launch an assault upon a force of 
Space Marines. 


1. MOVEMENT PHASE 

The Death Guard player starts by moving their unit of Plague 
Marines. They have a Move characteristic of 5", and so are moved as 
close as possible towards the Space Marines. 

The Death Guard player then moves their Malignant Plaguecaster, 
and decides this model should Advance... 



2. PSYCHIC PHASE 

The Death Guard only has a single psyker - the Malignant 
Plaguecaster. This model attempts to manifest the Smite power. 





The closest enemy unit 
are the Intercessors. They 
suffer D3 mortal wounds. 
The Death Guard player 
rolls a 5, which means 
the Intercessor Squad 
loses 3 wounds, enough 
to kill one Intercessor and 
wound another. 


-T- 2 rounds to 3 


The Death Guard player 
takes a Psychic test by 
rolling 2D6, and scores a 
total of 6. This is greater 
than the power’s warp 
charge value of 5, so the 
test is passed. 




3. SHOOTING PHASE 

The Death Guard player selects the unit of Plague Marines to shoot 
with. The Plague Marines will shoot with their boltguns, while the 
Plague Champion will throw a krak grenade. 


The targets are 6" away, which is within range 
of the Plague Marines’ . These are 

Rapid Fire 1 weapons, and so each fires twice 
at half range or less. The Death Guard player 
therefore rolls 8 dice to see if the shots hit. The 
Plague Marines’ Ballistic Skill is 3+, so 6 shots 
hit and the others miss. 


The Death Guard player then makes a wound 
roll for each hit. A Strength of 4 equals 

the target’s Toughness of 4, meaning a roll of 4+ 
is required to successfully wound the target. The 
Death Guard player rolls for each shot, four of 
which are successful. The Space Marine player 
will now need to make a saving throw for each. 


W' m 


One of the rolls is less than the 
Intercessor’s Save characteristic of 3+, so 
the wound is allocated to the wounded 
Intercessor. A inflicts 1 point of 

damage on this model, which removes 
its last wound and it is slain. The other 
wounds are saved and bounce off the 
Space Marines’ power armour. 






4. CHARGE PHASE 

The Death Guard player chooses the Plague Marines to charge 
the Intercessors. 



The Space Marine player 
fires Overwatch and 
makes 4 hit rolls. Models 
only hit on 6s when firing 
Overwatch, however both 
hits go on to wound, and 
then both saving throws 
are failed - two models 
are slain! 


After resolving 
Overwatch, the Death 
Guard player rolls 2D6, 
scoring 7. The Plague 
Marines can charge 7" - 
enough to move within 1' 
of the Intercessors. 



The Plague Champion then throws a 
krak grenade, which hits. This grenade 
has a Strength of 6, which wounds 
the Intercessors on a roll of 3+ as its 
Strength is greater than the Intercessors’ 
Toughness. The Space Marine player then 
rolls a 3 for their saving throw, but must 
subtract 1 from the roll because the krak 
grenade has an AP characteristic of -1. 
The final result of 2 fails to protect the 
Space Marines. 


A krak grenade inflicts D3 damage; the 
Death Guard player rolls a 6, inflicting 
3 points of damage. This causes an 
Intercessor to lose both its wounds. As it 
is slain by this attack, the other point of 
damage is discarded and has no effect. 


5. FIGHT PHASE 

Units that charged always resolve their fights first. In this case, that 
means the Plague Marines unit fights first. 



They start by piling in, 
each model moving up 
to 3" closer to the nearest 
model. All are now within 
1" of an enemy. 


The Plague Marines will use their plague knives to make their 
close combat attacks against the Intercessor unit, but the Plague 
Champion, who has an Attacks characteristic of 2, chooses 
to make 1 close combat attack using his , and 1 

using his power fist. The Death Guard player rolls 2 hit rolls for 
the plague knives (rolling a 3 and a 5), 1 for the 
(rolling a 3), and 1 for the power fist (rolling a 2). 


Plague sword Power fist 


The Plague Marines and the Plague Champion both have a 
Weapon Skill characteristic of 3+, so the attack made with the 
power fist misses, but all the others hit. After wound rolls and 
saving throws are taken, another Intercessor has been slain. The 
Plague Marine unit then consolidates , one of its models 

moving closer to the nearest enemy model. 


The Death Guard player 
has no other units that can 
fight, so the Space Marine 
unit fights, slaying a single 
Plague Marine in return. 


G. MORALE PHASE 

Both the Plague Marine unit and the Intercessors have suffered 
casualties during the turn, and so both have to take a Morale test. 

The Death Guard player goes first, rolling a 6. Three Plague Marines died 
this turn, so 3 is added to the roll, for a total of 9. This exceeds the highest 
Leadership in the unit by 1 (the Plague Champion has a Leadership 
characteristic of 8), so 1 of the remaining models flees the battlefield. 

The Space Marine player then takes a Morale test for the Intercessors, 
rolling a 3. When the number of casualties is added they have a total of 
7. This is less than the unit’s highest Leadership of 8 - the test is passed 
and no models flee. 

The Death Guard turn is now complete, and the Space Marine player 
can now start their turn. 






‘There can be no 
bystanders in the battle 
for survival. Anyone 
who will not fight by 
your side is an enemy 
you must crush.’ 

- Scrip torus 
Munificantus 


FIGHTING A BATTLE 


THE MISSION 

Before you can wage war in a game of 
Warhammer 40,000, you must select a 
mission. The core rules include a single 
mission - Only War - which is ideal to 
get the action started quickly. Others 
can be found elsewhere in this book, in 
other books, or you could play a mission 
of your own creation. If you and your 
opponent can’t agree on which mission to 
play, both players should roll a dice, re¬ 
rolling ties, and whoever rolls the highest 
decides on the mission. 


THE BATTLEFIELD 

In the far future, battles are fought across 
an infinite variety of strange and alien 
planets where no land is left untouched 
by the blight of war. Crystal moons, 
derelict space hulks, carnivorous death 
worlds and nightmarish Daemon worlds 
are just a few of the fantastical landscapes 
that can be recreated whenever you play a 
game of Warhammer 40,000. 

A battlefield can be any surface upon 
which the models can stand - a dining 
table, for example, or the floor. We 
typically assume a battlefield is 6' by 4' 
(although some missions will state other 
dimensions), but it should always be large 
enough to accommodate all your models 
- if it is not, simply increase the size of 
the battlefield. 


Unless the mission you are playing 
instructs you otherwise, you should 
then feel free to create an exciting 
battlefield using any terrain features 
from your collection that you wish. In 
general, we recommend having one or 
two features in each 2' by 2' area. Don’t 
worry if your battlefield doesn’t match 
these requirements, but keep in mind 
that playing on very small or very large 
battlefields, or ones that are either a 
barren wasteland or filled to overflowing 
with terrain features, may give an 
advantage to one side or the other. 


BATTLEZONES & EXPANSIONS 

If you are battling in a specific battlezone, 
or if you are using a particular expansion, 
there might be additional rules pertaining 
to setting up the battlefield, and special 
rules that alter how some terrain interacts 
with your warriors. Bear these in mind 
when creating your battlefield. 


THE WARLORD 

Once you have mustered your army, nominate one of your models to 
be your Warlord. 

If your Warlord is a CHARACTER, it can use a Warlord Trait - a 
preferred tactic or personal ability that marks them out amongst 
their peers. Immediately before either player starts to deploy their 
army, you can roll on the Warlord Trait table here to determine what 
Warlord Trait your Warlord has. Alternatively, choose the trait that 
most suits your Warlord’s temperament or style of war. 


WARLORD TRAITS 


D3 WARLORD TRAIT 


Legendary Fighter: If this Warlord charges in the Charge phase, add 1 
to their Attacks characteristic until the end of the ensuing Fight phase. 


Inspiring Leader: Friendly units within 6" of this Warlord can add 1 to 
their Leadership characteristic. 

Tenacious Survivor: Roll a dice each time this Warlord loses a 
3 wound. On a 6, the Warlord shrugs off the damage and does not lose 
the wound. 


YOU MUST DO YOUR DUTY! 
























. V' ! 


ONLY WAR 


\ 


The time has come to prove your worth as the greatest warlord in the galaxy! All that stands between you and 
ultimate glory is an enemy army bent upon your destruction. 


THE ARMIES 

In order to play this mission, you must first muster an 
army from the miniatures in your collection. You can 
include any models in your army. 


Sometimes you may find that you do not have enough 
models to field a minimum-sized unit (this can be 
found on each unit’s datasheet); if this is the case, you 
can still include one unit of that type in your army with 
as many models as you have available. 


THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. The players 
must then place objective markers to represent sites 
of tactical or strategic import that one or both armies 
are attempting to secure. Objective markers can be 
represented by any suitable marker or piece of terrain. 
Each player must place two objective markers anywhere 
on the battlefield, so long as they are each at least 10" 
away from any other objective marker. We suggest 
taking turns to place these, starting with whichever 
player wins a roll-off. A player controls an objective 
marker if there are more models from their army within 
3" of it than there are enemy models (measure to the 
centre of the marker). 


PRIMARY OBJECTIVES 

Before setting up their armies, both players roll off. 

The player who rolls higher then rolls on the primary 
objectives table (see right) to determine which are used 
during the mission. 


DEPLOYMENT 

Once the victory conditions have been determined, the 
player who did not roll on the primary objectives table 
then divides the battlefield into two equal-sized halves. 
Their opponent then decides which half is their own 
deployment zone, and which half is the other player’s 
deployment zone. 


The players then alternate deploying their units, one 
at a time, starting with the player who did not pick 
their deployment zone. Models must be set up in their 
own deployment zone, more than 12" from the enemy 
deployment zone. Continue setting up units until both 
players have set up all the units in their army, or you 
have run out of room to set up more units. 


POWER LEVEL 

Before battle begins, determine each army’s Power Level 
by adding together the Power Ratings of all the units set 
up in that army; whichever player has the lowest is the 
Underdog. If both have the same Power Level, the player 
who assigned the deployment zones is the Underdog. 


If the difference between the Power Levels of the 
two armies is 10 to 19, the Underdog receives one 
Command re-roll; if the difference is 20 to 29, the 
Underdog receives two Command re-rolls, and so on. 
Each Command re-roll can be used once, at any point 
during the battle, to re-roll a single dice. 


FIRST TURN 

The Underdog chooses who has the first turn. 


BATTLE LENRTH 

The battle lasts for five battle rounds, or until one army 
has slain all of its foes. 


VICTORY CONDITIONS 

If one army has slain all of its foes, it immediately wins 
a major victory. Otherwise, at the end of the battle, the 
player who has the most victory points wins a major 
victory. If both players have the same number of victory 
points at the end of the battle, the Underdog wins a 
minor victory. 


PRIMARY OBJECTIVES 


VICTORY CONDITIONS 


Slay and Secure: At the end of the battle, each objective 
marker is worth 2 victory points to the player who 
controls it. Players also earn D3 victory points if the 
opposing army’s Warlord was slain during the battle. 


Ancient Relic: At the start of the first battle round, but 
before the first turn begins, randomly select one objective 
marker; remove the other objective markers from 
the battlefield. At the end of the battle, the remaining 
objective marker is worth 6 victory points to the player 
who controls it. 


Domination: At the end of each turn, each objective 
marker is worth 1 victory point to the player who 
controls it. Keep a running score from turn to turn. 



THE ONLY NECESSARY REACTION TO TREACHERY IS VENGEANCE. 


A.!, 


A ! 


- ■ L * • r - ; 

*V! -- ' 1- T . ' m Aj’- A 





Wt 



THROUGH BLOOD 
AND FIRE I MARCH. 
IN WAR ETERNAL MY 
HEARTS THUNDER. 

I AM AN ANGEL 
BORN OF VIOLENCE, 
A SOLIDER FORGED 
IN LEGEND. I AM 
THE BLADE IN THE 
EMPEROR’S HAND, 
THE HOLY CERAMITE 
OF HIS ARMOUR. 


OPEN PLAY 


Are you new to tabletop wargaming? Or are you a grizzled veteran looking for 
a new challenge? Either way, open play games are one of the best ways to get 
started, providing you with almost limitless options and flexibility. 


Brilliant ideas are sometimes the 
simplest, and open play games of 
Warhammer 40,000 epitomise this. Open 
play is a style of gaming that allows you 
to take to the battlefield with any army, 
made up of any Citadel Miniatures 
from your collection - no restrictions. 

It’s as straightforward and streamlined 
as wargaming gets, and it’s a great way 
to begin. 

Many players love the deep and complex 
rules that have traditionally defined 
tabletop wargaming, and if that’s your 
preferred style, then you’ll find plenty of 
support and guidance right here in this 
book. However, there’s also a lot of fun 
to be found in a more flexible approach. 
All you need to play an open play game 
are your painted miniatures, their 
datasheets, the core rules, a set of dice, a 
tape measure, a surface on which to play 
and a willing opponent. Then, just set up 
your models and start having fun! You 


can add extra dimensions to your open 
play games by incorporating any of the 
rules or guidelines that appear in this and 
other Warhammer 40,000 books, such 
as rules for Detachments, battlezones 
and battlefield terrain. Alternatively, you 
can devise your own missions, creating 
entirely new objectives or special rules, or 
you could adapt any existing mission to 
better suit your needs. 

The flexible nature of open play means 
that you can spend as much or as little 
time as you like reading rules, and it’s 
a great introduction to the world of 
tabletop games. This style of gaming is 
perfect for beginners, who may not yet 
own a complete collection of miniatures. 
It’s also ideal for veterans thinking of 
starting a new collection, and allows 
battles to be fought with just a few units 
of the models you plan to collect, so that 
you can see how they perform and what 
tactics work best with them. 





, { m 







THERE IS NOTHING TO FEAR BUT FAILURE. 

vfl ’ * S' ' ‘7 ‘' ' j ' 




















q fMBMSM! 


Open play games allow the broadest 
choice of army selection, providing the 
greatest degree of freedom for collecting 
miniatures and putting together an 
army. Rather than structuring your 
collection around a particular Faction 
(pg 240), you can be inspired by any 
facet of the diverse and brutal galaxy, or 
simply by the models you most admire. 

If you’re the proud owner of a varied 
collection of warriors, war machines 
and monstrous creatures, there’s nothing 
to stop you fielding all of them in a 
single game. You can even deploy every 
last miniature you own in a battle of 
apocalyptic proportions, or set yourself 
unusual challenges. For instance, you 
could discover how many Space Marine 
Intercessors it takes to bring down your 
friend’s Khorne Bloodthirster, or see how 
long a heroic Terminator Captain could 
fight off a Nurgling horde. 

While there are no restrictions or 
requirements placed on the models you 
can use in open play games, it’s best to 
have a chat with your opponent before 
the game begins to discuss what models 
you will each be taking in your armies. 
You can even make use of elements of 
matched play, like points, if you wish, but 
it is entirely up to you. 





Besides giving you freedom to do more 
with your collection, open play games 
are also perfect for battles between 
multiple players. For example, there’s 
a great fight to be had where a third 
player brings their Drukhari raiders to 
the battlefield. The piratical xenos strike 
from the shadows, preying on targets 
from the other armies, or perhaps even 
forging fleeting alliances with one side 
or the other. In open play, the types 
of battles you fight are limited only by 
your imagination. 


You should feel free to tinker with any 
aspect of playing a game of Warhammer 
40,000 that appeals to you. You could, 
for example, devise other methods of 
deploying your forces. You might place 
a screen across the centre of the table so 
that the armies can deploy in secret, or 
you and your opponent might each draw 
a map showing where you plan to deploy 
your units, and so on. 

With so much scope for fun and 
creativity, open play is one of the most 
accessible and enjoyable gaming styles, 
for beginners and veterans alike. So 
what are you waiting for? Grab your 
miniatures collection, however large or 
small, and give open play a try! 


‘SICKNESS, DISEASE, 
PLAGUE AND POX, 
SUFFERING AND THE 
SLOW, LIVING ROT. 
SUCH WONDROUS 
GIFTS DOES NURGLE 
SEEK TO BESTOW 
UPON THE UNWORTHY 
HUMAN CATTLE OF 
THE IMPERIUM. WE 
ARE MERELY THE 
VECTORS BY WHICH HIS 
VIRULENT BENEFICENCE 
MAY BE SPREAD TO THE 
UNDESERVING MASSES.’ 


- Urgloth Rotheart, 
Plague Champion of the 
Death Guard 




k . 


II 

7 


k 

V■ 

t 

ii 































No form of war is unknown in the galaxy. On these pages you will find three examples 
of open play missions - Annihilation, Hold at all Costs and Death or Glory - that you 
can use to start waging war right away. You will also find a few ideas below to spark 
your imagination for other open play battles; you should feel free to use these hooks as 
the basis of your battles, or simply create ones of your own. 


An elite force strikes behind enemy lines to 
assassinate the foe’s commanders. 


Your enemy believes their position 
unassailable. Lead the forlorn attempt to 
create a breach and bring victory! 


An evil ritual is nearing completion - fight 
to prevent its culmination, or bring about 
its fruition. 


A band of operatives must silence sentries 
and enable their army’s approach. 


A group of sappers attempts to sabotage a 
mighty war machine or fortress before it, 
and its terribly powerful weapons, become 
fully operational. 


A priceless piece of archeotech is lost 
within these war-torn ruins - your forces 
must be the ones to discover its location 
and take it back to your headquarters. 


A convoy is ambushed - how many of its 
vital supplies can it escape with? 


A beleaguered army must hold out long 
enough for reinforcements to relieve them. 


You and your opponent(s) are trying to 
reach a powerful relic; use your fastest units 
to race across the long battlefield and be 
first to claim the prize! 


You have been entrusted with the life of 
a dignitary - you must escort them safely 
across the war zone. 


Snipers and close-quarters fighters come 
into their own in a claustrophobic battle 
through the ruins of a fallen hive city. 


As you signal the attack, your own allies 
suddenly reveal their traitorous intent and 
open fire upon your lines. Can you rally to 
wage a war on two fronts and prevail? 


After months of fighting, the enemy army is 
on the verge of routing. Break their morale 
and victory will be assured. 


TEAM GAMES 


Warhammer 40,000 battles 
are conventionally fought 
between two players, but 
battling it out with three 
or more lends the game 
a different dynamic and 
ensures that no one has to sit 
out. Of course, the real joy 
of team games is the social 
aspect, and you’ll discover 
true camaraderie with your 
fellow gamers over salvoes of 
good-natured banter aimed 
across the battlefield, making 
it clear that this gaming style 
is fun for friend and foe alike. 


It couldn’t be easier to play a 
team game. Once all players 
have assembled with their 
armies, simply split into 
two teams - how you divide 
the players is entirely up to 
you. Having done so, select 
one model on each team to 
be their Warlord and then 
play the battle exactly as 
you normally would, using 
the same rules but replacing 
terms like player’ and 
‘opponent’ with ‘team’ or 
‘opposing team’. 












Two warlords face each other, intent on 
destroying all that stand before them. Each 
must attempt to annihilate their opponent, 
whilst minimising their own losses. 

THE ARMIES 

In order to play this mission, you must first 
muster an army from the miniatures in your 
collection. You can include any models in 
your army, but this mission works especially 
well when both armies have a roughly equal 
Power Level. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. 


ANNIHILATION 


DEPLOYMENT 

Once the battlefield has been created, the 
players roll off. The player who rolled highest 
divides the battlefield into two equal-sized 
halves. Then, the player who rolled lowest 
chooses a half to be their deployment 
zone; the opposite half is their opponent’s 
deployment zone. The players then alternate 
deploying their units, one at a time, starting 
with the player who did not pick their 
deployment zone. Models must be set up in 
their own deployment zone, more than 12" 
from the enemy deployment zone. Continue 
setting up units until both players have set 
up all the units in their army, or you have 
run out of room to set up more units. 


FIRST TDRN 

The player who finished setting up their 
army first can choose whether to have the 
first or second turn. 

BATTLE LENGTH 

The battle lasts for five battle rounds, or until 
one army has slain all of its foes. 

VICTORY CONDITIONS 

If one army has slain all of its foes, 
it immediately wins a major victory. 
Otherwise, at the end of the battle, the player 
who has the most models remaining wins a 
minor victory. 


1°9 


3 


The battlefield lies at a crossing of key 
strategic importance. A defending army 
stands ready to hold it at all costs in the 
face of a superior foe that surrounds them. 

THE ARMIES 

In order to play this mission, you must first 
muster an army from the miniatures in your 
collection. You can include any models in 
your army, but this mission works especially 
well when the Power Level of one army is 
between a third higher and double that of 
the other. In this mission, the player whose 
I army has the higher Power Level is the 
Attacker; their opponent is the Defender. 


HOLD AT ALL COSTS 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. 

The centre of the battlefield should contain 
at least one terrain feature, such as a hill, a 
building or a large ruin that the Defender’s 
units can begin the battle holding. 

DEPLOYMENT 

Once the battlefield has been created, the 
Defender sets up their entire army anywhere 
that is within 18" of the centre of the 
battlefield. The Attacker then sets up their 
entire army anywhere that is more than 12" 
from any enemy model. 


FIRST TURN 

The players should roll off, and whoever rolls 
highest can choose whether to have the first 
or second turn. 

BATTLE LENGTH 

The battle lasts for five battle rounds, or until 
one army has slain all of its foes. 

VICTORY CONDITIONS 

If one army has slain all of its foes, 
it immediately wins a major victory. 
Otherwise, at the end of the battle, the player 
whose model is closest to the centre of the 
battlefield wins a major victory. 


t>af 

cai 


MM 




An outnumbered army faces inevitable 
defeat, but if they sell their lives dearly, 
and even a single warrior survives, they 
will have earned a heroic death. 

THE ARMIES 

In order to play this mission, you must first 
muster an army from the miniatures in your 
collection. You can include any models in 
your army, but this mission works especially 
well when the Power Level of one army is at 
least twice that of the other. In this mission, 
the player whose army has the higher Power 
Level is the Attacker, and their opponent is 
the Defender. 


DEATH DR GLORY 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. 

DEPLOYMENT 

Once the battlefield has been created, the 
players should roll off. The player who rolled 
lowest chooses a half to be their deployment 
zone; the opposite half is their opponent’s 
deployment zone. The Attacker sets up their 
entire army first, and the Defender sets up 
their entire army second. Models must be set 
up in their own deployment zone, more than 
12" from the enemy deployment zone. 


FIRST TURN 

The Defender can choose whether to have 
the first or second turn. 

BATTLE LENGTH 

The battle lasts for five battle rounds, or until 
one army has slain all of its foes. 

VICTORY CONDITIONS 

If one army has slain all of its foes, 
it immediately wins a major victory. 
Otherwise, at the end of the battle, the 
Defender wins a heroic victory if they 
have even a single model remaining on 
the battlefield. 



















trT 1 




NARRATIVE PLAY 

With a cast of indomitable heroes, diabolical villains and enigmatic xenos, a 
plot of system-spanning conflicts, unshakeable loyalty and ruthless betrayals, 
and of course spectacular battles, every Warhammer 40,000 story is an epic in 
itself. Narrative play is all about enacting such tales on your own battlefield. 


All across the galaxy, relentless battles of 
conquest and survival are being fought 
between the forces of the Imperium, 
Chaos, and the disparate xenos races. 

Just as you might expect, recreating 
these sprawling conflicts on the tabletop 
is a hugely popular part of the Games 
Workshop hobby, allowing you to make 
these stories your own. Put simply, 
narrative play is a gaming style that ties 
the battles you play on your tabletop to 
the stories of the Imperium and its foes. 

Most games of Warhammer 40,000 tell 
a story. Every time players get together 
and talk about why their armies might be 
fighting each other, they are working out 
a narrative game. Once objectives have 
been decided, there are endless ways to 
build that story into the game. Armies 
might be modified to better reflect 
the protagonists of the story, specific 
scenery might play a part in recreating 
the landscape, ‘house rules’ might be 
invented to represent the consequences 
of victory and defeat - even the paint 
schemes can be developed to reflect the 


narrative the players are trying to create. 
This element of planning and storytelling 
sets narrative play apart from open play, 
embedding the games firmly in the 
worlds of Warhammer 40,000. 

Narrative play can be further enhanced 
through the use of Battle-forged armies 
(pg 240). In these armies, your units are 
organised into Detachments, which not 
only allows your armies to better reflect 
the background of their Faction, but also 
awards Command Points, giving you 
access to general and mission-specific 
Stratagems which you can use to shape 
the battle. 

The stories set out in the various 
Warhammer 40,000 publications are 
there to provide a setting for your 
collections of Citadel Miniatures. By 
their very nature, these tales describe 
battles fought by named individuals and 
specific armies, such as the Ambush at 
Dhorak Pass, when the Cadian regiments 
commanded by Commissar Odoski came 
under attack from the Alpha Legion. 

















We have included a mission at the end 
of this section that allows you to refight 
that battle, as well as a general guide 
on how to create your own missions 
based on historical events. These kinds 
of battles are referred to as ‘Echoes of 
War missions. 

Most of the missions presented in this 
section take a more flexible approach 
to war in the far future, however. We’ve 
included six missions, each representing 
a classic type of battle that you can 
easily adapt to suit your own narrative 
should you so choose - we call these 
‘Crucible of War’ missions. The Meat 
Grinder mission, for example, centres 
around a desperate defence against a foe 
who throws his forces at the enemy in 
ceaseless waves. It is representative of 
a thousand such conflicts in the Dark 
Millennium, and is ideal for recreating 
classic battles such as Ghazghkull 
Thraka’s assault on Hades Hive, or 
the Ultramarines’ ill-fated defence of 
Macragge’s polar fortresses during the 
First Tyrannic War. 

Narrative games are typically 
asymmetrical, with one player taking the 
role of the attacker and the other taking 
the role of the defender. Each player’s 
army might be composed according 
to these different roles, with access to 
different abilities, and one player will 
often have an advantage over the other. 
These types of narrative games present 


a whole new challenge to a general, and 
require different skills and stratagems if 
you are to succeed. 


Narrative games also tend to have more 
bespoke rules than either open play 
or matched play games. This is simply 
because narrative missions are more 
detailed in the way they try to recreate 
the stories, events and strategies of 
particular battles. Planning a narrative 
game, and working out which special 
rules you will use, is often just as fun as 
playing the game itself, as it lets you really 
unleash your imagination. 


All of the missions and rules in this 
section can be used to provide inspiration 
for battles of your own creation. 
Recreating a battle just as it happened 
is great fun, and as we provide many 
missions that do this, it’s very easy as well. 
With only a little effort, however, it is 
just as satisfying to use these missions as 
the framework for making up your own 
stories, tailored to your own collections. 
The only limitations to a narrative game 
are those of the story itself - which you 
get to create! Small and large armies, 
one-off games or campaigns (pg 272), 
simple or complex additional rules - all 
of the parameters are up to you and your 
opponent, ensuring that the games you 
play build on and support the legends of 
your collections. 


‘TO HUNT THE FALLEN, 
WE MUST BE STRONG, 
SWIFT AND SILENT. WE 
MUST PLACE TRUST IN 
OUR SWORN BROTHERS 
ALONE, AND SHOW 
NEITHER MERCY NOR 
HESITATION TO ANY 
WHO SEEK TO OBSTRUCT 
OR BETRAY US.’ 


- Sergeant Zamorael, 
Dark Angels Ravenwing 










NARRATIVE PLAY MISSION RULES 

Most narrative play missions use one or more additional special rules to better represent the different 
tactics and strategies used by attackers and defenders. Some of the more in-depth mission special rules are 
collected below and referenced by the missions that appear later in this section. 


CONCEALED DEPLOYMENT 

In some battles, commanders have had time to 
conceal the positions of their forces from the enemy. 

If a mission uses Concealed Deployment, the Defender 
will need a set-up marker for each unit in their army 
that they intend to start the battle deployed on the 
battlefield. You do not need any markers for units that 
will start the battle embarked on a TRANSPORT, only a 
marker for the transport itself. Each marker needs to be 
distinct (for example by having a different number) so 
it can correspond to a specific unit. The Defender must 
write down which unit each marker represents and keep 
this information secret from his opponent. 

When the Defender deploys their army, they set up the 
markers instead of their models. Once the Defender has 
set up all their markers, the Attacker deploys all their 
forces. Once this has been done, the Defender then 
reveals which marker corresponds to which unit, setting 
up the appropriate models as they do so. The first model 
in each unit must be placed exactly where the unit’s set¬ 
up marker was placed, and the entire unit must be set 
up wholly within the player’s own deployment zone. 


RANDOM BATTLE LENGTH 

War is rarely predictable, and the time available to 
achieve your objectives is never certain. 

If your mission uses Random Battle Length, at the end 
of battle round 5, the player who had the first turn must 
roll a D6. On a roll of 3+, the game continues, otherwise 
the game is over. At the end of battle round 6, the player 
who had the second turn must roll a D6. This time the 
game continues on a roll of 4+, otherwise the game is 
over. The battle automatically ends at the end of battle 
round 7. 



DAWN RAID 

Cunning commanders may attack under cover of 
darkness to conceal their advance from the foe. 


RESERVES 

Reserves are forces which are not directly present 
at the start of an engagement but are available as 
reinforcements during battle. 


If your mission uses Dawn Raid, both players must 
subtract 1 from all hit rolls made in the Shooting phase 
during the first battle round of the game. 


PRELIMINARY BOMBARDMENT 

In a major offensive, the attacker will often launch a 
heavy bombardment prior to the main attack. 


If your mission uses Preliminary Bombardment, then at 
the start of the first battle round, but before the first turn 
begins, the Attacker should roll a dice for each enemy 
unit that is on the battlefield (do not roll for units that 
are embarked inside TRANSPORTS). On a roll of 6, 
that unit has been hit by a Preliminary Bombardment; 
that unit suffers D6 mortal wounds. INFANTRY units 
that are hit by a Preliminary Bombardment can choose 
to go to ground before the damage is determined - if 
they do, they only suffer D3 mortal wounds, but cannot 
take any actions during their first turn. 


X 


If a mission uses Reserves, it will detail which units in 
your army start the game in Reserve - these units are 
not deployed with the rest of your army. 

The mission will usually state when the units placed 
in Reserve arrive on the battlefield - this is typically at 
the end of a particular Movement phase. If the mission 
does not specify when units arrive, roll for each unit 
at the end of your second Movement phase (and at the 
end of each of your Movement phases thereafter) - this 
is called a Reserve roll. On a 3+, the unit being rolled 
for arrives from Reserve. Note that if a unit placed into 
Reserve is embarked within a TRANSPORT, they will 
arrive when their transport does, not separately (if 
rolling, make a single roll for the transport and the units 
embarked in it). 

The mission will explain how and where to set up units 
when they arrive from Reserve - typically within a short 
distance of a specified edge of the battlefield. 


HATRED IS THE EMPEROR’S GREATEST GIFT TO HUMANITY. 
















SENTRIES 

Many commanders use sentries to guard vital 
locations and raise the alarm if intruders are spotted. 

If your mission uses Sentries, the Defender will need 
one extra unit to act as their Sentries. Unless otherwise 
stated, this unit should have the Troops Battlefield Role, 
contain up to 10 models and have a Power Rating of 10 
or less. The Sentries’ Power Rating is excluded when you 
are calculating the total Power Level of your army. 

The mission rules will detail where Sentries are set up, 
but it should be noted that each Sentry model moves 
and acts as a separate, individual unit throughout 
the battle. At the start of each of the Defender’s 
Movement phases, both players roll a dice for each 
Sentry model, in an order chosen by the Defender. 

The player who rolled the highest can move the model 
the distance indicated on their dice in any direction (a 
Sentry cannot Advance as part of this move). If the rolls 
are tied, the Sentry does not move. 

At the start of the game, all is quiet and the alarm 
has yet to be sounded, but it is raised if any of the 
following occur: 

• A model from the Attacker’s army fires a ranged 
weapon or manifests a psychic power. 

• A model from the Attacking player’s army attacks a 
Sentry in the Fight phase but fails to kill them. Note 
that Sentries cannot fire Overwatch until after the 
alarm is raised. 

• A model from the Attacking player’s army is spotted 
by a Sentry. An enemy unit is spotted if it is within 

a certain range of any Sentry at the end of any 
Movement phase (irrespective of whether or not 
that unit is visible to the Sentry). The spotting range 
depends upon the Power Rating of the Attacker’s unit, 
as detailed below: 


POWER RATING SPOTTED WITHIN 

5 or less 3" 

6-10 6 " 

11-19 9" 

20 or more 12" 


If the alarm is raised during the 
Attacker’s turn, their turn ends after 
the action that raised the alarm has been 
completed. If the alarm is raised during 
the Defender’s turn, the Defender immediately 
starts a new turn in which they can typically set up 
response forces or reinforcements; this will be detailed 
in the mission itself. In either case, the Sentries are now 
under full control of the Defender. 


SUSTAINED ASSAULT 

Occasionally, an army will possess overwhelming 
superiority in numbers, with wave upon wave of its 
troops hurling themselves forward. 

If your mission uses Sustained Assault, any of the 
Attacker’s units that are destroyed can be brought back 
into play later in the battle, to represent their almost 
limitless supply of reinforcements. At the end of each of 
the Attacker’s Movement phases, roll a dice for each of 
their destroyed units, adding 2 to the result if that unit 
has the Troops Battlefield Role. On a 4+, immediately 
set up that unit within 6" of a battlefield edge - the 
mission will specify which. 

The Attacker can also, at the end of any of their turns, 
remove any of their units from the battlefield that have 
a quarter or less of their starting number of models (or, 
in the case of single-model units, a quarter or less of its 
starting number of wounds). This unit then counts as 
having been destroyed for all purposes, and so can be 
brought back into play later as described above. 


is o o 
















■m 


CRUCIBLE DF WAR 

MEAT GRINDER 


The enemy forces arrayed against you are the last stubborn defenders of this war zone, grimly holding 
out despite being overwhelmingly outnumbered. You have been committed to lead an all-out attack to 
annihilate them in their entirety. Friendly casualties are of no concern - no enemy must survive! 


o 

o 



THE ARMIES 

Each player must first muster an army from the 
miniatures in their collection. A player can include any 
models in their army, but if their army is Battle-forged 
(pg 240) they will also be able to use the appropriate 
Stratagems included with this mission. Once the armies 
have been chosen, the players must then decide who 
will be the Attacker and who will be the Defender. If the 
Power Levels of the two armies are different, then the 
player whose army has the higher Power Level should 
be the Attacker and their opponent should be the 
Defender. Otherwise the players can roll off to decide. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create a battlefield using the deployment map below 
and then set up terrain. The Defender’s deployment 
zone should contain several defensible pieces of terrain, 
such as ruins or obstacles, from which they can make 
their defiant last stand. The Attacker’s deployment 
zone should be more sparse by comparison, to better 
represent the no man’s land they are crossing. 


PRELIMINARY BOMBARDMENT 

Once both sides have been set up, the Attacker launches 
a Preliminary Bombardment (pg 194). 

FIRST TBRN 

The Attacker rolls a dice. On a 1, 2 or 3, the Attacker has 
the first turn, and on a 4, 5 or 6, the Defender has the 
first turn. 

SUSTAINED ASSAULT 

The Attacker can use the Sustained Assault rules 
(pg 195) to represent their overwhelming superiority in 
numbers. Each time one of the Attacker’s replacement 
units arrives, set up the models in that unit within 6" of 
the Attacker’s battlefield edge. 

BATTLE LENGTH 

The players should use the Random Battle Length rules 
(pg 194) to determine how long the battle lasts. 

VIGTDRY CONDITIONS 



Attacker's Deployment Zone 


If at the end of the battle the Defender has any models 
remaining on the battlefield, they win a major victory. 
Any other result is a major victory for the Attacker. 


DEPLOYMENT 

After terrain has been set up, the players then deploy 
their armies using the Concealed Deployment rules 
(pg 194). None of the Defender’s units can use abilities 
that allow them to arrive on the battlefield mid-battle 
- such units must be set up on the battlefield during 
deployment, using the Concealed Deployment rules. 


o 


Defender’s Deployment Zone 




Attacker’s Battlefield Edge 


Defender’s Battlefield Edge 










0 



) Defender Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem immediately before 
placing your set-up markers. You can 
place two extra set-up markers as decoys. 
When a decoy is revealed, simply remove 
the marker. 


) Attacker Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem immediately before 
rolling to see if a unit is hit by your 
Preliminary Bombardment. Roll 3 dice 
instead of 1. 


) Attacker Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem immediately after the 
Defender has finished placing their set¬ 
up markers. Select one of the markers 
- the Defender must reveal which 
unit is hiding there and immediately 
set the unit up (the first model in that 
unit must be set up on the marker 
as normal). 


) Defender Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem when one of your 
INFANTRY units is hit by a Preliminary 
Bombardment, but before the number of 
hits is determined. Halve the number of 
hits (rounding up) suffered by that unit. 


) Defender Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem when a replacement 
unit arrives on the battlefield. Roll a dice 
for each model in that unit - for each 
roll of 6, one model in that unit is slain 
(controlling player’s choice). 


) Attacker Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem when a replacement 
unit arrives on the battlefield. That 
unit can be set up anywhere within 6" 
of any battlefield edge other than the 
Defender’s battlefield edge. 






ji 


THOUGHT FOR THE DAY: LET NOT THE MUTANT SEEK OUR PLACES AND SHARE OUR LOT. 

4: j , Y‘" " t 1 ;/ *•* *. r ;r U. (i, **4* '--W 

















& 

I 


Slma Ena—i 

CRUCIBLE OF WAR 


AMRUSH! 


Under cover of darkness, the attacker’s forces have prepared a deadly trap and are even now lying in wait 
for a convoy of enemy reserves heading for the front line. They hope to catch their foe unawares and 
destroy them utterly before they can escape or mount a retaliatory counter-strike. 


i 


THE ARMIES 

Each player must first muster an army from the 
miniatures in their collection. A player can include any 
models in their army, but this mission works especially 
well with ground-based armies that contain few, if any, 
units that can FLY. If a player’s army is Battle-forged 
(pg 240) they will also be able to use the appropriate 
Stratagems included with this mission. Once the armies 
have been chosen, the players must then decide who 
will be the Attacker and who will be the Defender. If the 
Power Levels of the two armies are different, then the 
player whose army has the higher Power Level should 
be the Attacker and their opponent should be the 
Defender. Otherwise the players can roll off to decide. 


FIRST TURN 

The Attacker has the first turn. 


DAWN RAID 

This mission uses the Dawn Raid rules (pg 194). 


ESCAPE ROUTE 

The Defender’s units can move off the battlefield edge 
labelled ‘Escape Route’ so long as all of their models are 
able to make it off the board in the same phase. Any that 
do so have escaped the ambush - they are removed from 
the battlefield and take no further part in the battle. 




THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create a battlefield using the deployment map below 
and then set up terrain. The Defender’s deployment 
zone represents a thoroughfare leading towards the 
front line and should be exposed. The Attacker’s 
deployment zone should be covered in dense terrain 
such as woods or ruins, making it a perfect ambush site. 


BATTLE LENGTH 

The players should use the Random Battle Length rules 
(pg 194) to determine how long the battle lasts. 



DEPLOYMENT 

After terrain has been set up, the players set up their 
armies using the Concealed Deployment rules (pg 194). 
However, for this mission, the roles are reversed; the 
Attacker uses set-up markers to deploy their army first, 
and the Defender then sets up as normal. 


VICTORY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the battle, add up the Power Ratings of 
all the Defender’s escaped units (see Escape Route, 
above) and compare this to the Power Level of their 
army (count the entire unit’s Power Rating, even if only 
a single model escaped). If the combined Power Rating 
of the escaped units is one third or more of the army’s 
Power Level, the Defender wins a major victory. Any 
other result is a major victory for the Attacker. 


Of "tr <■ < 




12" 

f 



I 

< 

12" 

f 

Defender's 

Deployment 

Zone 

1 Centre of 

1 Battlefield 

* ,r * 

Attacker's 

Deployment 

Zone 

12" 

f 



\ 

% 

I 


i 


I 






& 


0 


-I# 


E3 












In this mission, the players can use Command Points (CPs) to use the following bonus Stratagems: 


'j THE TABLES TURNED 

J Defender Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem immediately after 
both sides have deployed, but before 
the first turn begins. The Defender 
rolls a dice - on a 6, they get the first 
turn instead. 


) Attacker Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem immediately after 
deployment. For each Command 
Point you spend, the Dawn Raid rules 
apply for one additional battle round. 
For example, if the Attacker uses 2 
Command Points on this Stratagem, 
both players must subtract 1 from all hit 
rolls made in the Shooting phase during 
the first three battle rounds of the game. 


) Defender Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem at the end of your 
opponent’s first Shooting phase. Select a 
unit in your army that was the target of 
at least one shooting attack; that unit can 
make a shooting attack at the enemy as if 
it were your own Shooting phase. 


Attacker Stratagem 
Select one of your own units 
immediately before it makes its shooting 
attacks. That unit can shoot without 
penalties from Dawn Raid this phase. 


Defender Stratagem 
Use this Stratagem after the Attacker has 
resolved a Preliminary Bombardment. 
Roll a dice for each of your units that 
went to ground; on a 2+ they can act 
normally during their first turn. 


) Attacker Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem immediately after 
both sides have deployed. You can 
launch a Preliminary Bombardment 
(pg 194). 


NOBODY IS INNOCENT, THERE ARE MERELY VARYING LEVELS OF GUIL r 









\%ril 

(p* 

fe 



\ .7 


wornmam 


CRUCIBLE DF WAR 

PATROL 


You have been detailed to patrol no man’s land and drive off any enemy forces encountered. Additional 
forces are near at hand to secure victory, but be warned - the enemy have their own reserves and will 
attempt to do the same to you. 


THE ARMIES 

Each player must first muster an army from the 
miniatures in their collection. A player can include any 
models in their army, but if their army is Battle-forged 
(pg 240) they will also be able to use the appropriate 
Stratagems included with this mission. Once the armies 
have been chosen, the players must then decide who 
will be the Attacker and who will be the Defender. If 
the Power Level of one of the armies is a third or more 
higher than the opposing army’s Power Level, then the 
player whose army has the higher Power Level should 
be the Attacker and their opponent should be the 
Defender. Otherwise the players can roll off to decide. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create a battlefield using the deployment map below 
and then set up terrain. Ruined buildings and craters 
litter the battlefield, the fallout from months of conflict. 

DEPLOYMENT 

After terrain has been set up, the Defender sets up any 
three of their units within their deployment zone - one 
of these units must have the Troops Battlefield Role. 

The Attacker then selects three of their units to serve as 
their patrol - one of these units must have the Troops 
Battlefield Role. All other units arrive later in the battle 
using the Reserves rules (pg 194). 


FIRST TORN 

Both players roll a dice, rolling again in the case of a 
tie. The player who rolls highest chooses who has the 
first turn. 

DRAWN TO BATTLE 

Starting from the second battle round, each player 
makes a roll for each of their units in Reserve at the 
end of their Movement phase. Attacking units arrive 
on a 4+, while Defending units arrive on a 3+. Units 
automatically arrive at the end of a player’s fourth 
Movement phase if they have not already done so. 

When a unit arrives, set it up anywhere within 6" of the 
controlling player’s battlefield edge. 


















VICTORY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has scored the 
most victory points wins a major victory. If both players 
have the same number of victory points, the game is a 
draw. Each player scores 1 victory point for each enemy 
unit that is destroyed (any unit not on the battlefield at 
the end of the game counts as having been destroyed). 


WMl 


ONLY FOOLS LISTEN TO THE HERETIC’S LIES. 


- Confessor Belithael of the Dark Angels 


' - -—- X f- 

^ DELAYED RESERVES 

ft 

\ SIGNAL THE ATTACK ] 

I1-2GPJ Defender Stratagem 


) Attacker Stratagem 


Use this Stratagem immediately before 


Use this Stratagem at the end of your 


your opponent makes a Reserve roll. If 


Movement phase, before making any 


you spend 1 CP, your opponent must 


Reserve rolls. Until the end of the turn 


subtract 1 from the roll, but if you spend 


you can add 1 to every Reserve roll 


2 CPs, they must subtract 2 instead. 


you make. 


^s§ 

r 


) PATROL IN FORCE 

) Attacker Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem after the Defender 
has deployed their patrol. You can set up 
one additional unit during deployment 
- this unit must have the Troops 
Battlefield Role. 


'i NOME ADVANTAGE 

J Defender Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem immediately before 
rolling to determine who will have the 
first turn. You can roll two dice instead of 
one, and choose the highest result. 


BATTLE LENGTH 

The players should use the Random Battle Length rules 
(pg 194) to determine how long the battle lasts. 


‘MERCY IS A WORD FOR TRAITORS AND 
COWARDS. IT IS A WORD FOR HERETICS. LET 
ALL WHO SPEAK IT BE STRUNG UP BY THEIR 
DUPLICITOUS TONGUES.’ 































The war progresses and the offensive is pushing the enemy back all along the front. However, the foe has 
mustered a strong defence at a vital crossing, and thus far, all attempts to break through their lines have 
failed. You must attempt to smash the defenders aside and drive deep into enemy territory. 

THE ARMIES THE BATTLEFIELD 

Each player must first muster an army from the Create a battlefield using the deployment map below 

miniatures in their collection. A player can include any and then set up terrain. The battlefield represents a 

models in their army, but this mission works especially well-defended and fortified position which the attackers 

well with ground-based armies that contain few, if any, are trying to break through. The Defender’s Front Line 
units that can Fly . If a player’s army is Battle-forged and Second Line deployment zones should both feature 

(pg 240), they will also be able to use the appropriate plenty of dense terrain features, such as ruins, to shelter 



Stratagems included with this mission. Once the armies 
have been chosen, the players must then decide who 
will be the Attacker and who will be the Defender. If the 
Power Levels of the two armies are different, then the 
player whose army has the higher Power Level should 
be the Attacker and their opponent should be the 
Defender. Otherwise the players can roll off to decide. 


within, or even a series of obstacles, defence lines, razor 
wire and other defences with the potential to halt the 
Attacker’s advance. The Attacker’s deployment zone, 
by contrast, is a carefully prepared killing field, with 
relatively little cover available. 


After terrain has been set up, the players set up their 
armies using the Concealed Deployment rules (pg 194). 
The Defender must attempt to place an equal number 
of set-up markers in their Front Line and Second Line 
deployment zones. 


Once both sides have been set up, the Attacker launches 
a Preliminary Bombardment (pg 194). 


The Attacker has the first turn. 


Defender's 
Front Line 
Deployment 
Zone 


Defender's 
Second Line 
Deployment 
Zone 


Attacker's 

Deployment 

Zone 







% 


STRATAGEMS 


In this mission, the players can use Command Points (CPs) to use the following bonus Stratagems: 




IBP 


HEAVY BOMBARDMENT 

Attacker Stratagem 
Use this Stratagem immediately before 
rolling to see if a unit is hit by your 
Preliminary Bombardment. The unit 
being rolled for is hit on a 4+ instead of 
only a 6. 




2BP 


BUB-IN DEFENCES 

Defender Stratagem 
Use this Stratagem immediately after 
setting up one of your units. Until that 
unit moves (for any reason) you can add 
1 to that unit’s saving throws against all 
shooting attacks. 

V_/ 




IBP 


COVER GRDBND 

Attacker Stratagem 
Use this Stratagem immediately before a 
unit rolls for its Advance distance - you 
count as having rolled a 6. 




IBP 


2EP 

\_ 


FORCED MARCH 

Attacker Stratagem 


PROXIMITY MINES 

Defender Stratagem 
Use this Stratagem the first time an 
enemy unit moves into or through your 
Front Line deployment zone. Roll a dice 
for each model in that unit - for each 
roll of 6, one model in that unit is slain 
(controlling player’s choice). 


Use this Stratagem when a replacement 
unit arrives on the battlefield. That 
unit can be set up anywhere within the 
Attacker’s deployment zone that is more 
than 9" away from any enemy model. 


4 


IBP 


DECOYS 

Defender Stratagem 
Use this Stratagem immediately before 
placing your set-up markers. You can 
place two extra set-up markers as decoys. 
When a decoy is revealed, simply remove 
the marker. 


SUSTAINED ASSAULT 

The Attacker uses the Sustained Assault rules (pg 195) 
to represent their overwhelming superiority in numbers. 
Each time one of the Attacker’s replacement units 
arrives, set up the unit wholly within 6" of the Attacker’s 
battlefield edge. The Attacker must attempt to bring on 
units if they can - there can be no holding back. 



Break Through: The Attacker scores 1 victory point for 
each of their units with at least one model completely 
within the Defender’s Front Line deployment zone at the 
end of the battle. They score 2 victory points instead for 
each of their units with at least one model completely 
within the Defender’s Second Line deployment zone at 
the end of the battle. 


BATTLE LENGTH 

The players should use the Random Battle Length rules 
(pg 194) to determine how long the battle lasts. 


Destroy any Approach: Each time one of the Attacker’s 
units is destroyed, the Defender scores 1 victory point. 


VICTORY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has scored the 
most victory points wins a major victory. If both players 
have the same number of victory points, the game is a 
draw. Victory points are achieved for the following: 




lO v 


SINS HIDDEN IN THE HEART TURN ALL TO DECAY. 


203 


i , ’ ' 













CRUCIBLE DF WAR 

SABOTAGE 


The attacker is leading a force on a surprise raid deep in enemy territory. Their mission is to sneak past the 
sentries guarding an important installation and plant explosives to destroy it. The defender’s main forces 
are on high alert, however, and should the alarm be raised, they will respond with deadly force. 


0 THE ARMIES 

Each player must first muster an army from the 
0 miniatures in their collection. A player can include any 
models in their army, but this mission works especially 

S well with armies that have a Power Level of 50 to 100, 
and which do not include many (or any!) VEHICLES 
^ or MONSTERS. If a player’s army is Battle-forged 
(pg 240), they will also be able to use the appropriate 
Stratagems included with this mission. Once the armies 
have been chosen, the players must then decide who 
will be the Attacker and who will be the Defender. If the 
Power Levels of the two armies are different, then the 
player whose army has the higher Power Level should 
be the Attacker and their opponent should be the 
Defender. Otherwise the players can roll off to decide. 
The Defender will need an additional unit to act as their 
* Sentries (pg 195). 

0 THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create a battlefield using the deployment map below 
and then set up terrain. The Defender’s deployment 
zone needs to include an objective marker or a suitable 
piece of scenery that is wholly within 12" of the centre 
of the battlefield to represent the target of the Sabotage 
(called the Objective) 

DEPLOYMENT 

< After terrain has been set up, the Defender sets up 
their Sentries. At least half of the Sentries must be 


placed within 12" of the centre of the battlefield, but the 
remainder can be placed anywhere in the Defender’s 
deployment zone. The Attacker then sets up as many 
of their units as they wish anywhere within their own 
deployment zone. All remaining units for both sides are 
placed in Reserve; they will arrive during the battle as 
described opposite. 

FIRST TURN 

The Attacker has the first turn. 

ATTACKER’S RESERVES 

The Attacker is allowed to bring on any Reserve units 
that they wish to at the end of each of their Movement 
phases. When a unit arrives from Reserve, they must be 
set up within 6" of their battlefield edge. 

DEFENDER’S RESERVES 

The Defender is allowed to bring on any Reserve units at 
the end of any of their Movement phases after the alarm 
has been sounded. On the first turn after the alarm is 
sounded, the Defender must roll a dice before bringing 
on a Reserve unit; it will only arrive on a roll of 3+. In 
subsequent turns, no roll is required. All models in the 
unit must be deployed wholly within 6" of one of the 
Defender’s two battlefield edges, and with all models 
more than 9" from any enemy models. 



Defender's Battlefield Edge 


Defender's 
Deployment Zone 


Centre of 
Battlefield 


Defender's Battlefield Edge 












Units from the Attackers army can make a Sabotage 
attempt if they are within 3" of the Objective at the end 
of any of their turns. An individual unit cannot attempt 
to Sabotage the Objective more than once during the 
battle, but any number of different units from the 
Attackers army can do so. VEHICLES and MONSTERS 
cannot make Sabotage attempts. 


The players should use the Random Battle Length rules 
(pg 194) to determine how long the battle lasts. 


If the Objective is destroyed (see Sabotage), the Attacker 
wins a major victory. Otherwise, the Defender wins a 
major victory. 


Keep track of the number of Sabotage attempts that are 
made over the course of the mission. When the battle 
ends, the Attacker rolls a dice, adding the number of 
Sabotage attempts to the result. If the score is 7 or more, 
the Objective is destroyed in a massive explosion! 


Proximity Alert: The alarm is automatically sounded 
from the end of the turn in which the first Sabotage 
attempt is made, even if no Sentries are left on 
the battlefield. 


THE EMPEROR ASKS ONLY THAT YOU HATE. 


In this mission, the players can use Command Points (CPs) to use the following bonus Stratagems: 


) Defender Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem after you have set 
up your Sentries on the battlefield. All 
Sentries can add 3" to the distances at 
which they will spot an enemy model. 


) Attacker Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem when one of 
your units makes a shooting attack, 
immediately before the attack is 
resolved. The alarm is only sounded if 
the target of the shooting attack loses 
one or more wounds, but is not slain. 


) Defender Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem if any of your units 
are within 3" of the Objective at the 
end of the game. Reduce the number of 
Sabotage attempts that have been made 
by 1, to a minimum of 0 attempts. 


J Attacker Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem when one of your 
units is set up during deployment. Halve 
that unit’s Power Rating when working 
out the distance at which it can be 
spotted by Sentries. 


) Defender Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem immediately before 
setting up your Sentries. Two units can 
be set up as Sentries rather than only 
one unit. 


) Attacker Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem after a unit has made 
a Sabotage attempt. That unit can make 
one additional Sabotage attempt during 
the game (it cannot make another 
Sabotage attempt this turn, however). 






















% <rr 


CRUCIBLE DF WAR 

RESCUE 

A spy has narrowly evaded capture by the foe, but they are still trapped behind enemy lines. Your orders 
are to locate the spy, and then escort them from the battlefield before enemy reinforcements arrive to 
overwhelm your rescue force. 


THE ARMIES 

Each player must first muster an army from the 
miniatures in their collection. A player can include any 
models in their army, but this mission works especially 
well with armies that have a Power Level of 50 to 100, 
and which do not include many (or any!) VEHICLES or 
MONSTERS. If a player’s army is Battle-forged (pg 240), 
they will also be able to use the appropriate Stratagems 
included with this mission. 

Once the armies have been chosen, the players must 
then decide who will be the Attacker and who will be 
the Defender. If the Power Levels of the two armies 
are different, then the player whose army has the 
higher Power Level should be the Attacker and their 
opponent should be the Defender. Otherwise the players 
can roll off to decide. The Attacker will need a single 
INFANTRY model with a Wounds characteristic of 
no more than 4 to represent the Spy. The Defender will 
need an additional unit to act as their Sentries (pg 195). 

THE SPY 

The Spy model is not included in the Attacker’s Battle- 
forged army, and does not contribute to the Attacking 
army’s Power Level. It is treated as a unit consisting 
of a single model, that can only be attacked by enemy 
models if it is the closest target. 


THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create a battlefield using the deployment map below 
and then set up terrain. Once all the terrain has been 
set up, the players take it in turns, starting with the 
Attacker, to pick a piece of terrain in the Defender’s 
deployment zone in which the Spy may be hiding, 
until a total of six terrain pieces have been chosen 
(alternatively, players can place six objective markers). 

DEPLOYMENT 

After terrain has been set up, the Defender sets up a unit 
of Sentries (pg 195). At least a third of the Sentries must 
be placed within 12" of the centre of the battlefield, but 
the remainder can be placed anywhere in the Defender’s 
deployment zone. The Attacker then sets up as many 
of their units as they wish anywhere within their own 
deployment zone. All remaining units for both sides are 
placed in Reserve; they will arrive during the battle as 
described below. 

FIRST TURN 

The Attacker has the first turn. 

ATTACKER’S RESERVES 

The Attacker is allowed to bring on any Reserve units 
that they wish to at the end of each of their Movement 
phases. When a unit arrives from Reserve, they must be 
set up within 6" of their battlefield edge. 


Defender's Battlefield Edge 


Defender's Deployment Zone 



Centre of 
Battlefield 

K 


12" 

) 






Attacker's Deployment Zone 



■HHR 







Attacker's Battlefield Edge 




STRATAGEMS 

In this mission, the players can use Command Points (CPs) to use the following bonus Stratagems: 


% 




1 EP 


SILENCED WEAPONS 

Attacker Stratagem 
Use this Stratagem when one of 
your units makes a shooting attack, 
immediately before the attack is 
resolved. The alarm is only sounded if 
the target of the shooting attack loses 
one or more wounds, but is not slain. 



2 CP 


SENSDRS 

J Defender Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem after you have set 
up your Sentries on the battlefield. All 
Sentries can add 3" to the distances at 
which they will spot an enemy model. 






SEP 


ZGP 


NIGHT RAID 

Attacker Stratagem 
Use this Stratagem after both sides have 
deployed. The Dawn Raid rules (pg 194) 
are used in this mission and the spotting 
range for all Sentries is halved during 
the first battle round. 


RAPID RESPONSE 

Defender Stratagem 
Use this Stratagem before rolling to see 
if a Reserve unit arrives on the turn 
after the alarm is sounded. The unit 
automatically arrives without the dice 
being rolled, and can arrive within 
6" of any battlefield edge other than 
the Attackers. 


xilfi vj /' it 

, i I %m 

i •N- 


jC 


1 EP 


SCAN FOR DISTRESS REASONS 

Attacker Stratagem 
Use this Stratagem at the end of your 
Movement phase if a model is within 
12" of one of the pieces of terrain that 
may contain the Spy that has yet to be 
investigated. On a 6, you have found 
the Spy and it is placed using the 
rules below. 


y 





< 

X 





2 CP J 


EXTRA SENTRIES 

Defender Stratagem 
Use this Stratagem immediately before 
setting up your Sentries. Two units can 
be set up as Sentries rather than only 
one unit. 


DEFENDER’S RESERVES 

The Defender is allowed to bring on any Reserve units at 
the end of any of their Movement phases after the alarm 
has been sounded. On the first turn after the alarm is 
sounded, the Defender must roll a dice before bringing 
on a Reserve unit; it will only arrive on a roll of 4+. In 
subsequent turns, no roll is required. All models in the 
unit must be deployed wholly within 6" of the Defenders 
battlefield edge, and with all models more than 9" from 
any enemy models. 


The Spy cannot move in the Movement phase in which 
it is discovered. In addition, the alarm is automatically 
sounded at the end of the turn in which the Spy is 
discovered, even if no Sentries are left on the battlefield. 



RATTLE LENGTH 

The players should use the Random Battle Length rules 
(pg 194) to determine how long the battle lasts. 


r 


I 


FINDING THE SPY 

Roll a dice the first time one of the Attackers models 
finishes a move within 3" of a piece of terrain (or marker) 
that may contain the Spy. On a roll of 6, or if this is the 
last place the Spy could be, the model representing the 
Spy is set up by the Attacker within 3" of the terrain, more 
than 1" from any enemy models. If this is impossible, the 
Spy is slain and the Attacker loses the battle immediately. 


VICTORY CONDITIONS 

If the Spy has been discovered and is still alive at the end 
of the game, the Attacker wins the battle. Otherwise the 
Defender wins the battle. 


!' 



THE TOOLS OF OUR SALVATION ARE FAITH AND BULLETS. 


207 


•fit: fJt 1 ' 


P Z ^ ' ' V*?**- - ' '"U ■ L 














pa ■, jj 


f 

t. \ ^ 



mWk 






armies 



t 'A' t ■* Mfiats ( V^mI. 1 1 

'S 

> >$fflPZKjal 

















^■ilwCfcSp^W^M ,>, l B^B 

0^3 

- ’ A ^ 



# / ® ^ *5Sh§5MU 





■ . i E^W 




Ip ^ ’" 












■* HISTORICAL BATTLES 




The galaxy is replete with heroic deeds and legendary battles. With a little imagination, you can recreate 
these battles with your armies on the tabletop and find out if history will repeat itself, or if your command 
can alter the course of fate. 


After reading about a specific battle, many players 
become inspired and wish to incorporate similar themes 
into their own games. Some players may even take their 
inspiration a step further, wanting to replicate not just 
the flavour of the battle that inspired them, but recreate 
the conflict exactly. Such ‘historical’ battles offer many 
unique and rewarding challenges. 


There are myriad ways to approach recreating a 
historical battle. There is no right or wrong method, 
and players should experiment to find what works best 
for them. Unlike a pick-up-and-play match against a 
regular opponent, replaying a historical battle takes 
some degree of planning. How much depends on the 
scale and detail of the battle you are trying to bring 
to life. In some cases, there will already be an Echoes 
of War mission that represents the event. Effectively a 
ready-made historical battle, these narrative missions 
feature all you need to recreate the clash on the tabletop. 
We have provided one here as an example - Ambush at 
Dhorak Pass - including a brief summary of the events 
(below) and the mission that recreates it (right). 


Conversely, if a battle is recounted in less detail, further 
research and perhaps a little innovation is called for. If 
there is no mission for the battle you wish to enact, you 
may want to make up your own rules. You could adapt 
an existing mission to better suit your needs or devise 
one completely from scratch. Read the source material 
again and study any artwork, both of which can give you 
glimpses into the circumstances of the battle. Look for 
any details that can be translated to the tabletop, such 
as mentions of the different types of units that were 
present, or of the heroes that led them into battle, the 
strategies they used, the terrain they fought over, and so 
on. The more you discover and translate into your rules, 
the more authentic and enjoyable your game will be. 
Inventing rules, army lists and a modelled battlefield for 
a historical re-fight is all part of the fun! 




HMESece i vJBQf ;*■ '© - 


THE AMBUSH AT DHORAK PASS 


The Cadian Dhorak front was beginning to 
crumble beneath the onslaught of relentless 
Chaos attacks. Yet this was Cadia - a fortress 
world as well prepared for war as any in the 
Imperium, honed by battles uncounted. 
Reinforcements were already en route - 
with tank columns of the Cadian 309th 
Armoured Regiment leading companies of 
the 822nd Infantry - ‘The Sureshots’ - to 
the aid of their beleaguered comrades. 

They did not make it. Waiting for them on 
the supply route was a carefully laid Alpha 
Legion ambush. Designed to deny Imperial 
reinforcements at the most critical junctures 
of the final battles, such ambushes had been 
set up all across the multiple fronts. Under 
cover of the unnatural darkness of violent 
warp storms, the Alpha Legion had laid 
a characteristically effective trap behind 
the Dhorak front. A series of quake-mines 
across the path stalled the lead Imperial 


forces, their own wrecked vehicles blocking 
their route. Then, with perfect timing, 
hidden Chaos troops rose from concealment 
to lay down a deadly crossfire upon both 
flanks. In this way, the undersized strike 
force whittled down the Imperial forces’ 
superior numbers. Cadians are born to fight, 
however. Under barked commands from 
their Commissar, they began to coolly lay 
down return fire while attempting to fall 
back in good order. Commissar Odoski 
knew he needed to extract himself from the 
immediate ambush, and that if he could set 
his firing line then his superior numbers 
and armour could make his foe pay for their 
daring. Unfortunately, this played right 
into the Alpha Legion’s plan. Summoned 
Daemons materialized amidst the Cadians’ 
rear ranks, and for the first time, panic 
began to set in amongst the battle-hardened 
Astra Militarum. In a few short moments, 


only smoking wrecks and cruelly hewn 
corpses were left at the crossroads, the 
only sound the crackle of flames and a last 
few vox calls from the Dhorak front - still 
calling for aid that would never arrive. 


REASON BEGETS DOUBT; DOUBT BEGETS HERESY. 

. 2JL& , , •; JT’> ■ 
























ECHOES DF WAR 


AMBUSH AT DHDRAK PASS 


The final battles of Cadia were marked not just by the terrible onslaught of Abaddon’s assaults, but also by 
innumerable synchronised ambushes. The action at the Dhorak Pass crossroads is an example of how the 
smaller Alpha Legion strikes could eliminate larger Imperial forces. 


THE MISSION 

This mission is a variation of the Ambush! mission 
(pg 198). Select the armies and create the battlefield as 
described below, but otherwise use all the rules as listed 
in the Ambush! mission, along with the additional rules 
and modifications detailed here. 


THE ARMIES 

The Defender commands an Astra Militarum army; 
the Cadian 309th Armoured and 822nd Infantry under 
the Command of Commissar Odoski. The Attacker 
commands Alpha Legion Chaos Space Marines and 
a host of their Daemon allies. The Cadian forces 
outnumber the Alpha Legion forces. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Use the deployment map and set up terrain as shown 
below to create the Dhorak Pass battlefield. 

DAEMDNIG AMBUSH 

The Alpha Legion players DAEMON units are not set 
up during deployment, but will arrive later during the 
battle. At the end of the Alpha Legion players third 
Movement phase, they set up all of their DAEMON 
units anywhere on the battlefield more than 9" from any 
enemy model. 


UNNATURAL DARKNESS 

Do not use the Dawn Raid rules. Instead, use all the 
rules from Battlezone: Night Fight (pg 252) to better 
reflect the darkness caused by the warp storms. 

BLDGKED ROUTE 

The wrecks in the middle of the battlefield have blocked 
the road. Models cannot move through or over them 
and must move around them. 

QUAKE-MINES 

Roll a dice each time an ASTRA MILITARUM unit 
Advances along the Dhorak Road (see map) - on a 1 it 
triggers quake-mines buried by the Alpha Legion and 
immediately suffers D6 mortal wounds. 

THE SURESHOTS 

To represent their disciplined firing lines, the Cadian 
player can re-roll any hit rolls of 1 in the Shooting 
phase for any of their INFANTRY units that remained 
stationary in their preceding Movement phase. 

COMMISSAR DDDSKI 

If Commissar Odoski exits the battlefield (see Escape 
Route, pg 198) then the battle immediately ends and the 
Cadian player wins a major victory. 



Cadians’ 

Deployment 

Zone 


Dhorak Road 


Alpha Legion's 
Deployment 
Zone 


THE BLOOD OF MARTYRS IS THE SEED OF THE IMPERIUM. 






& 



I 

► 



£■ 



: . : v ■ 



‘COLONEL DAGOSTIN, 
THE MUNITORUM 
MUST REGRETFULLY 
DENY YOUR REQUEST 
FOR REINFORCEMENT 
AT THIS TIME. LET 
FAITH AND PIETY 
BOLSTER YOUR RANKS 
IN THEIR PLACE. THE 
EMPEROR EXPECTS.’ 


- Munitorum missive, 
War Zone: Narthossus 


Armies come in all shapes and sizes, with unique strengths and weaknesses, but 
to test a general’s mettle as a commander, there needs to be a level playing field. 
This is the goal of matched play. 


Matched play games give you the 
option to fight battles with armies 
that are intentionally balanced against 
one another, allowing you to test not only 
your tactical skill on the battlefield, but 
also your strategic ability to choose an 
army that can defeat all opponents! 

There are several ways to choose an army 
for matched play games. Typically, you 
and your opponent will build an army 
to an agreed points limit, but you could 
instead, for example, build armies that 
have a set number of units. Alternatively, 
you could use the Wounds characteristic 
or the Power Rating of each unit, either 
setting an upper limit for each unit or a 
fixed total for both armies. These are just 
a few examples of ways you can organise 
an army for matched play games - you 
and your opponent can use any system 
you like, as long as you both agree. 


Forging an army for matched play is 
a more detailed process than it is for 
open and narrative play games. Firstly, it 
involves a conversation between you and 
your opponent in which you decide on 
the parameters of the battle. Whatever 
your chosen method of army selection, 
there will be some calculations to make 
as you select your forces to your agreed 
limits. Finally, you will need to organise 
your army into Detachments, as all 
matched play games use the Battle- 
forged army rules (pg 240). This is very 
straightforward and a fun process in its 
own right. It also means that, in matched 
play games, the game has essentially 
started before the first miniature is set up 
on the battlefield. Your knowledge of the 
units available to you and the wargear 
they use will be pivotal in this army- 
selection process, and knowledge of your 
opponent’s force can be just as important. 


MATCHED PLAY 


BELLIGERENCE ALLIED TO FAITH CAN MOVE A MOUNTAIN. 















Which combinations of units work best 
may not be obvious at first, but once 
you’ve played a few games, you will find 
the balance that works best for you. 


When using Battle-forged armies, most 
Detachments will grant you Command 
Points (pg 242). These grant access to 
Stratagems, powerful tools that you can 
use to turn the tide of battle. 


There are several benefits to matched 
play. A battle between armies that are 
equally balanced makes for a decisive 
test of your strategic acumen, and the 
outcome of such a clash will always be 
hard to predict. Once you have settled on 




This section includes six Eternal War and 
six Maelstrom of War missions, which are 
designed to be played as part of matched 
play battles - the former use fixed ways 
of scoring victory points, the latter use 
dynamic Tactical Objectives which reflect 
changing orders. Unlike the missions 
presented in the narrative play section, 
where either the attacker or defender 
might have a slight advantage, in matched 
play missions both players share the same 
goal, providing them with an even chance 
of achieving victory. 


an army configuration, you essentially 
have a pick-up-and-play force that 
you can bring to any table, against any 
opponent, and there’s no need to agree 
on the setting and story of a battle as 
you would in a narrative play game. 
Matched play is ideal for school leagues 
and tournaments, as it provides clear 
guidelines on the size and strength of the 
armies taking part, as well as ensuring 
that all battles are as fair as they can be. 
Also, putting limits on an army makes 
it easier to control how long a game 
will last, and as such, matched play is 
perfect for a quick game in your local 
hobby store. Some tournaments or events 
apply extra rules which may affect the 
armies you can choose, creating new 
challenges for players. For example, they 
might limit Battle-forged armies to three 
Detachments, or introduce exclusive new 
Detachments for you to use. 



The following pages offer more details 
on assembling matched play armies 
and playing matched play battles. But 
however enjoyable it is to design a 
perfect army, a true general will only be 
satisfied after their force has sallied forth 
and proven its worth on the battlefield. 
Matched play beckons - and glory awaits! 


‘TWIST YOUR ENEMY’S 
DEEDS. RENDER HIS 
VICTORIES YOUR OWN. 
WEAVE ABOUT HIM THE 
STRANDS OF FATE AND 
PROVIDENCE UNTIL, 
WITH BUT A TWITCH 
OF HIS STRINGS, YOU 
COMPEL YOUR PUPPET 
TO LIE, TO KILL, AND 
EVEN SACRIFICE 
HIS OWN LIFE, IN 
FURTHERANCE OF THE 
WILL OF TZEENTCH.’ 


- Ezorath Qurastis, 
Sorcerer of the 
Thousand Sons 



0 

1 












CHOOSE ARMIES 

The rules presented here are designed so that the opposing armies used in a matched play game have as 
equal a chance of winning as possible. Mustering an army for matched play is therefore a more detailed 
affair than it is for open play or narrative play style gaming. 


When choosing an army for a matched play game, your 
army must be Battle-forged (pg 240) and its total points 
value cannot exceed the limit set for your game. 

ARMY FACTION 

All of the units in a matched play army, with the 
exception of those that are UN ALIGNED, must have at 
least one Faction keyword in common (e.g. IMPERIUM 
or CHAOS), even though they may be in different 
Detachments. 

POINTS LIMIT 

In a matched play game, you will need to determine 
with your opponent the points limit for your game. 
Usually, both players will use the same limit, but this 
does not need to be the case. 

To use a points limit, you will need to reference 
the points values, which are found in a number of 
Warhammer 40,000 publications, such as codexes. In 
these you will find the points costs for every model 
and weapon described in that book. Simply add up the 
points values of all the models and weapons in your 
army, and make sure the total does not exceed the 
agreed limit for the game. 


REINFORCEMENT POINTS 

Sometimes a psychic power or ability will allow you 
to add units to your army, or replace units that have 
been destroyed. One of the most common examples of 
such an ability might allow you to summon a unit of 
DAEMONS to the battlefield. In a matched play game, 
you must set aside some of your points in order to use 
these units. The points you set aside are called your 
reinforcement points, and need to be recorded on your 
army roster (see below). 

Each time a unit is added to an army during battle, you 
must first subtract the number of points the unit would 
cost from your pool of reinforcement points. If there 
are not enough points in the pool to pay for the unit, 
you must either decrease the size of the unit (down to 
the minimum unit size) or the number of upgrades 
until you have enough points for it, or decide not to use 
it after all. If you decide not to use the unit, then the 
ability or psychic power that allowed you to take it in 
the first place is still considered to have been used, even 
though no unit actually arrived. 

ARMY ROSTER 

Once you have picked your army, record the details of 
it on a piece of paper (called your army roster). The 
roster must include the units in your army, details of the 
upgrades they have, and must also say which unit in the 
army will be the army’s Warlord. 


ORGANISED EVENTS 

If you are using matched play for an organised event such as a tournament, we suggest using the table below as a 
helpful guideline. Of course, if you are organising such an event, you should feel free to modify these guidelines 
to better suit your event’s own needs, schedule, etc. 


ORGANISED EVENT GUIDELINES 

POINTS LIMIT 

NUMBER OF DETAGHMENTS 

BATTLEFIELD SIZE 

GAME LENGTH 

Up to 1,000 

Up to 2 per army 

4' x4' 

Up to 2 hours 

1,001-2,000 

Up to 3 per army 

6' x4' 

2 to 3 hours 

2,001-3,000 

Up to 4 per army 

8' x4' 

3 or more hours 















#4U 


VL 




O^XJ 


GHDDSE MISSION 


The only thing that remains to be done is to choose the mission you will use for the game. We have 
included two sets of matched play missions in this book: six Eternal War missions, and six Maelstrom of 
War missions. Each set has been devised to present different tactical challenges. 


Matched play games use missions. You can simply agree 
with your opponent which set of matched play missions 
you wish to use, or you can roll off, and whoever rolls 
highest can choose which set to use. 


Most matched play missions come in sets of six. Having 
picked the set you wish to use, you can either select one 
of the six missions, or roll a dice to randomly select one 
by using the appropriate table: 


OBJECTIVE MARKERS 

Many missions use objective markers - these represent 
sites of tactical or strategic import that both sides are 
attempting to secure. These can be represented by any 
appropriate markers, pieces of terrain or spare models 
that you have available, but nicely modelled bespoke 
ones are the most satisfying to use on your battlefield. 
When measuring distances involving objective markers, 
always measure to and from the centre of the marker. 


ETERNAL WAR TABLE 


DG 

MISSION 

1 

Retrieval Mission (pg 218) 

2 

No Mercy (pg 219) 

3 

The Scouring (pg 220) 

4 

Big Guns Never Tire (pg 221) 

5 

Secure and Control (pg 222) 

6 

The Relic (pg 223) 


MAELSTROM OF WAR TABLE 

DG 

MISSION 

1 

Cleanse and Capture (pg 230) 

2 

Contact Lost (pg 231) 

3 

Tactical Escalation (pg 232) 

4 

Spoils of War (pg 233) 

5 

Cloak and Shadows (pg 234) 

6 

Deadlock (pg 235) 


SUDDEN DEATH 

Generally a game will not finish before the agreed turn 
limit. However, it is possible to achieve a ‘sudden death’ 
victory in the following circumstances: 


1. If one player concedes the battle, the game ends 
immediately and a crushing victory goes to 
their opponent. 


2. If at the end of any turn after the first battle round, 
one player has no models on the battlefield, the 
game ends immediately and their opponent 
automatically wins a crushing victory. Do not include 
any Fortifications when determining if a player has 
any units on the battlefield unless they have a unit 
embarked inside - even the most formidable bastion 
requires a garrison if it is to pose a threat. 


MATCHED PLAY MISSION RULES 

The following three special rules apply to all matched play games: 


PSYCHIC FOCUS 

With the exception of Smite, each psychic power can be attempted 
only once per turn, rather than once per psyker per turn. 


STRATEGIC DISCIPLINE 


The same Stratagem cannot be used by the same player more than 
once during any single phase. This does not affect Stratagems that are 
not used during a phase, such as those used ‘before the battle begins’ 
or ‘at the end of a battle round’. 


TACTICAL RESERVES 

Instead of being set up on the battlefield during Deployment, many 
units have the ability to be set up on teleportariums, in high orbit, 
in Reserve, etc., in order to arrive on the battlefield mid-game as 
reinforcements. When setting up your army during Deployment for 
a matched play game, at least half the total number of units in your 
army must be set up on the battlefield, even if every unit in your 
army has an ability that would allow them to be set up elsewhere. 
Furthermore, in matched play games, any unit that has not arrived on 
the battlefield by the end of the third battle round counts as having 
been destroyed. 


































Player A Deployment Zone 



12 " 





Centre ) 

L. ----- - ________ ,____, 

Point S 







12 

Player B Deployment Zone 


STANDARD DEPLOYMENT MAPS 


These six standard deployment 
maps are referenced in the matched 
play missions in this section. When 
playing matched play missions, 
you must randomly select one of 
these deployment maps. To do so, 
one of the players simply rolls a 
D6 - you then use the deployment 
map that corresponds to the result. 
The mission will typically say which 
player makes this roll - if not, it is 
made by the youngest player. 


1. SPEARHEAD ASSAULT 


WE STAND AGAINST THE 
RISING TIDE OF CHAOS. 
NONE SHALL MOVE US, 
OR LAY US LOW. OUR 
FOES SHALL BATTER 
THEMSELVES BLOODY 
AGAINST THE FORTRESS 
OF OUR CONTEMPT, AND 
GRIND THEIR BONES 
TO POWDER UPON THE 
RAMPARTS OF OUR 
DISDAIN. AND WHEN 
THEY ARE NAUGHT BUT 
DUST UPON THE WIND, 
WE WILL REMAIN.’ 


- Captain Lydoro, 
Imperial Fists 4th Company 


2. DAWN OF WAR 


Player A 
Deployment 
Zone 


' Centre 

v v Point 


Player B 
Deployment 
Zone 


3. SEARCH AND DESTROY 


TRUE HAPPINESS STEMS ONLY FROM DUTY. 






























4. HAMMER AND ANVIL 


‘LET THE BLOOD FLOW 
IN A CRIMSON TIDE. 

LET IT POUR THROUGH 
THEIR MEAGER FANES 
AND DROWN THEIR 
PRATING PRIESTS. LET 
IT SWEEP AWAY THE 
CORPSE-EMPEROR’S 
PITIFUL ARMIES AND 
SUBMERGE HIS ROTTING 
WORLDS IN AN OCEAN 
OF GORE. SO DEMANDS 
MIGHTY KHORNE, AND 
SO SHALL IT BE!’ 

- Ghadrax the Annihilator, 
Champion of Khorne 

x_ y 






TO ATTEMPT UNDERSTANDING IS FOLLY WHEN DEALING WITH ALIENS. 







































DEPLOYMENT 

The player who placed the fourth objective 
marker determines which of the standard 
deployment maps is used in the battle 
(pg 216) and picks one of the deployment 
zones on the map for their army. Their 
opponent uses the other deployment zone. 

The players then alternate deploying their 
units, one at a time, starting with the player 
who did not pick their deployment zone. A 
players models must be set up within their 
own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 


Take and Hold: At the end of the game, 
each objective marker is worth 3 victory 
points to the player who controls it. A player 
controls an objective marker if they have 
more models within 3" of the centre of it than 
their opponent. 

Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord 
has been slain during the battle, you score 1 
victory point. 

First Blood: The first unit, of any kind, to be 
destroyed during the battle is worth 1 victory 
point to the opposing player at the end of the 
game. If two or more units from opposing 
forces are destroyed simultaneously, then both 
players get 1 victory point. 

Linebreaker: If, at the end of the battle, you 
have at least one model within the enemy’s 
deployment zone, you score 1 victory point. 




THE TORMENTS OF THE FLESH ARE PETTY CONCERNS AS MEASURED BY TORTURES OF THE SOUL. 


ACROSS THE VASTNESS 
OF SPACE, ALIEN RACES 
PLOT THE DETHRONING 
OF THE EMPEROR 
AND THE DOWNFALL 
OF HUMANITY. THIS 
IS THE IMPERIUM’S 
CALL TO ARMS AND 
NOTHING SHALL STAND 
IN THE WAY OF ITS 
RIGHTEOUS CRUSADE. 


ETERNAL WAR 

RETRIEVAL MISSION 

The battlefield is strewn with discarded equipment, supplies and other detritus of 
war that, for various reasons, you wish to recover. You must fight off the enemy while 
scouring the field to retrieve as many of these vital objectives as you can. 


THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an 
agreed points limit. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. 

Next, the players set up 4 objective markers; 
the players should roll off and, starting with 
whoever rolls highest, the players alternate 
placing these objective markers until all 4 
have been set up. The objective markers can 
be located anywhere on the battlefield, as long 
as the centre of each is more than 12" from 
the centre of any other objective marker and 
6" from the edge of the battlefield. 


FIRST TURN 

The player who finished setting up their army 
first can choose to take the first or second 
turn. If they decide to take the first turn, their 
opponent can roll a dice; on a roll of 6, they 
manage to seize the initiative, and they get the 
first turn instead! 

BATTLE LENGTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who 
had the first turn must roll a D6. On a roll 
of 3+, the game continues, otherwise the 
game is over. At the end of battle round 6, 
the player who had the second turn must 
roll a D6. This time the game continues on 
a roll of 4+, otherwise the game is over. The 
battle automatically ends at the end of battle 
round 7. 

VICTORY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has 
scored the most victory points is the winner. 

If both players have the same number of 
victory points, the game is a draw. Victory 
points are achieved for the following: 









001 




ETERNAL WAR 

ND MERCY 




In a harsh and war-torn galaxy, there are many battles where there is only one goal - find your enemy, 
crush them utterly and take away their means to mount further resistance. Your mission is simple: kill as 
many enemy units as you can! 


THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an agreed 
points limit. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. 

DEPLOYMENT 

The players roll off - whoever rolls highest determines 
which of the standard deployment maps is used in the 
battle (pg 216) and picks one of the deployment zones 
on the map for their army. Their opponent uses the 
other deployment zone. 

The players then alternate deploying their units, one at 
a time, starting with the player who did not pick their 
deployment zone. A players models must be set up 
within their own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 

FIRST TURN 

The player who finished setting up their army first can 
choose to take the first or second turn. If they decide to 
take the first turn, their opponent can roll a dice; on a 
roll of 6, they manage to seize the initiative, and they get 
the first turn instead! 


BATTLE LENGTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who had the first 
turn must roll a D6. On a roll of 3+, the game continues, 
otherwise the game is over. At the end of battle round 6, 
the player who had the second turn must roll a D6. This 
time the game continues on a roll of 4+, otherwise the 
game is over. The battle automatically ends at the end of 
battle round 7. 

VICTORY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has scored the 
most victory points is the winner. If both players have 
the same number of victory points, the game is a draw. 
Victory points are achieved for the following: 

No Quarter Given: Each player scores 1 victory point 
for each enemy unit that is destroyed. 

Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord has been slain 
during the battle, you score 1 victory point. This is 
in addition to the 1 victory point you score for each 
destroyed enemy unit. 

First Blood: The first unit, of any kind, to be 
destroyed during the battle is worth 1 victory point 
to the opposing player at the end of the game. If two 
or more units from opposing forces are destroyed 
simultaneously, then both players get 1 victory point. 

Linebreaker: If, at the end of the battle, you have at least 
one model within the enemy’s deployment zone, you 
score 1 victory point. 






ACROSS THE VOID OF SPACE, MEN LIVE AS THEY 
HAVE LIVED FOR MILLENNIA UPON THE SAND, 
ROCK AND SOIL OF WORLDS BATHED IN THE 
LIGHT OF ALIEN SUNS. SO IS HUMANITY’S SEED 
CAST FAR AND WIDE BEYOND THE KNOWLEDGE 
OF MAN, TO THRIVE BITTERLY IN THE DARKNESS, 
TO TAKE ROOT AND CLING WITH ROBUST AND 
SAVAGE DETERMINATION. 




x : 


7 


THERE IS NO CHOICE BETWEEN THE EMPEROR AND THE ABYSS. 




219 

















THOUGH WE MAY 
KNOW THE BITTER 
TEARS OF DEFEAT, 
WE TRUST IN THE 
EMPEROR’S VICTORY 


THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an 
agreed points limit. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. 

Next, the players set up 6 objective markers; 
the players should roll off and, starting with 
whoever rolls highest, the players alternate 
placing these objective markers until all 6 
have been set up. The objective markers can 
be located anywhere on the battlefield, as long 
as the centre of each is more than 12" from 
the centre of any other objective marker and 
6" from the edge of the battlefield. 

DEPLOYMENT 

The player who placed the sixth objective 
marker determines which of the standard 
deployment maps is used in the battle 
(pg 216) and picks one of the deployment 
zones on the map for their army. Their 
opponent uses the other deployment zone. 

The players then alternate deploying their 
units, one at a time, starting with the player 
who did not pick their deployment zone. A 
player’s models must be set up within their 
own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 

After all units have been set up, randomly select 
one of the objective markers, however you 
wish, to be the Superior objective marker, and 
a different objective marker to be the Inferior 
objective marker (see Take and Hold, right). 

FIRST TURN 

The player who finished setting up their army 
first can choose to take the first or second 
turn. If they decide to take the first turn, their 
opponent can roll a dice; on a roll of 6, they 
manage to seize the initiative, and they get the 
first turn instead! 


BATTLE LENGTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who 
had the first turn must roll a D6. On a roll 
of 3+, the game continues, otherwise the 
game is over. At the end of battle round 6, 
the player who had the second turn must 
roll a D6. This time the game continues on 
a roll of 4+, otherwise the game is over. The 
battle automatically ends at the end of battle 
round 7. 

VIGTDRY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has 
scored the most victory points is the winner. 

If both players have the same number of 
victory points, the game is a draw. Victory 
points are achieved for the following: 

Take and Hold: At the end of the game, each 
objective marker is worth a number of victory 
points to the player who controls it. A player 
controls an objective marker if they have more 
models within 3" of the centre of it than their 
opponent does. The Superior objective marker 
is worth 4 victory points, whilst the Inferior 
objective marker is only worth 1 victory 
point. All other objective markers are worth 2 
victory points. 

Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord 
has been slain during the battle, you score 1 
victory point. 

First Blood: The first unit, of any kind, to be 
destroyed during the battle is worth 1 victory 
point to the opposing player at the end of the 
game. If two or more units from opposing 
forces are destroyed simultaneously, then both 
players get 1 victory point. 

Linebreaker: If, at the end of the battle, you 
have at least one model within the enemy’s 
deployment zone, you score 1 victory point. 


ONLY THE INSANE HAVE STRENGTH ENOUGH TO PROSPER. 


ETERNAL WAR 

THE SCOURING 


Both sides are sweeping through the area, tasking recon units to identify sites of 
strategic import. However, not all sites are of equal worth - victory will go to the player 
who can secure the most valuable sites and cripple the enemy’s ability to locate others. 










GUNS NEVER 


THOUGHT FOR THE DAY: SEEK NO REWARD BUT THE SATISFACTION OF YOUR MASTER! 


GUNS AND WARRIORS 
ARE USEFUL BUT IT IS 
OUR INDOMITABLE 
WILL THAT PROMISES 
THE ULTIMATE 
VICTORY. 


ETERNAL WAR 


TIRE 


Both sides are attempting to secure a foothold in no man’s land, spearheading the attack 
with overwhelming firepower. For the attack to be successful, your big guns must take 
up key positions on the battlefield and crush the enemy’s heaviest weaponry. 


THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an 
agreed points limit. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. 

Next, the players set up 4 objective markers; 
the players should roll off and, starting with 
whoever rolls highest, the players alternate 
placing these objective markers until all 4 
have been set up. The objective markers can 
be located anywhere on the battlefield, as long 
as the centre of each is more than 12" from 
the centre of any other objective marker and 
6" from the edge of the battlefield. 

DEPLOYMENT 

The player who placed the fourth objective 
marker determines which of the standard 
deployment maps is used in the battle 
(pg 216) and picks one of the deployment 
zones on the map for their army. Their 
opponent uses the other deployment zone. 
The players then alternate deploying their 
units, one at a time, starting with the player 
who did not pick their deployment zone. A 
players models must be set up within their 
own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 

FIRST TDRN 

The player who finished setting up their army 
first can choose to take the first or second 
turn. If they decide to take the first turn, their 
opponent can roll a dice; on a roll of 6, they 
manage to seize the initiative, and they get the 
first turn instead! 

BATTLE LENGTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who 
had the first turn must roll a D6. On a roll 
of 3+, the game continues, otherwise the 
game is over. At the end of battle round 6, 
the player who had the second turn must 
roll a D6. This time the game continues on 
a roll of 4+, otherwise the game is over. The 
battle automatically ends at the end of battle 
round 7. 


VICTORY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has 
scored the most victory points is the winner. 

If both players have the same number of 
victory points, the game is a draw. Victory 
points are achieved for the following: 

Key Positions: At the end of the game, each 
objective marker is worth 3 victory points to 
the player who controls it. A player controls 
an objective marker if they have more 
models within 3" of the centre of it than their 
opponent. However, if only one player has 
models from a Heavy Support unit within 
3" of the centre of an objective marker, they 
control it regardless of the number of nearby 
enemy models. 

Destroy the Big Guns: At the end of the 
game, each player receives 1 victory point for 
each enemy Heavy Support unit that has been 
completely destroyed. 

Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord 
has been slain during the battle, you score 
1 victory point. Should the Warlord be a 
Heavy Support unit, this is in addition to the 
1 victory point you score from Destroy the 
Big Guns. 

First Blood: The first unit, of any kind, to be 
destroyed during the battle is worth 1 victory 
point to the opposing player at the end of the 
game. If two or more units from opposing 
forces are destroyed simultaneously, then both 
players get 1 victory point. 

Linebreaker: If, at the end of the battle, you 
have at least one model within the enemy’s 
deployment zone, you score 1 victory point. 







ETERNAL WAR 

SECURE AND CONTROL 

Both sides are attempting to capture the enemy base of operations or other similarly 
vital objective whilst defending their own. Success on the battlefield will require you to 
split your army into offensive and defensive forces. 


THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an 
agreed points limit. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. 

DEPLOYMENT 

The players roll off - whoever rolls highest 
determines which of the standard deployment 
maps is used in the battle (pg 216) and picks 
one of the deployment zones on the map 
for their army. Their opponent uses the 
other deployment zone. 

Then, starting with the player who chose 
their deployment zone, each player sets up a 
single objective marker anywhere in their own 
deployment zone - the centre of an objective 
marker cannot be within 6" of any edge of 
the battlefield. 

The players then alternate deploying their 
units, one at a time, starting with the player 
who set up their objective marker last. A 
players models must be set up within their 
own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 





% I - ua^^swMmrmm n i ^ 


FIRST TURN 

The player who finished setting up their army 
first can choose to take the first or second 
turn. If they decide to take the first turn, their 
opponent can roll a dice; on a roll of 6, they 
manage to seize the initiative, and they get the 
first turn instead! 

BATTLE LENGTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who 
had the first turn must roll a D6. On a roll 
of 3+, the game continues, otherwise the 
game is over. At the end of battle round 6, 
the player who had the second turn must 
roll a D6. This time the game continues on 
a roll of 4+, otherwise the game is over. The 
battle automatically ends at the end of battle 
round 7. 

VIGTDRY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has 
scored the most victory points is the winner. 

If both players have the same number of 
victory points, the game is a draw. Victory 
points are achieved for the following: 

Take and Hold: At the end of the game, 
each objective marker is worth 3 victory 
points to the player who controls it. A player 
controls an objective marker if they have 
more models within 3" of the centre of it than 
their opponent. 

Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord 
has been slain during the battle, you score 1 
victory point. 

First Blood: The first unit, of any kind, to be 
destroyed during the battle is worth 1 victory 
point to the opposing player at the end of the 
game. If two or more units from opposing 
forces are destroyed simultaneously, then both 
players get 1 victory point. 


Linebreaker: If, at the end of the battle, you 
have at least one model within the enemy’s 
deployment zone, you score 1 victory point. 



FEAR THAT WHICH YOU DO NOT KNOW. KILL ALL THAT YOU FEAR. 




mam 


m -o 


ETERNAL WAR 

THE RELIC 




Both sides are attempting to recover a valuable relic from the front lines. It might be vital battle plans or 
maps, an item of spiritual significance or some other irreplaceable artefact that must be recovered - no 
matter the cost. 


THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an agreed 
points limit. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain, then place a 
single objective marker at the centre of the battlefield to 
represent the Relic. 



DEPLOYMENT 

The players roll off - whoever rolls highest determines 
which of the standard deployment maps is used in the 
battle (pg 216) and picks one of the deployment zones 
on the map for their army. Their opponent uses the 
other deployment zone. 

The players then alternate deploying their units, one at 
a time, starting with the player who did not pick their 
deployment zone. A players models must be set up 
within their own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 


FIRST TDRN 

The player who finished setting up their army first can 
choose to take the first or second turn. If they decide to 
take the first turn, their opponent can roll a dice; on a 
roll of 6, they manage to seize the initiative, and they get 
the first turn instead! 

BATTLE LENGTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who had the first 
turn must roll a D6. On a roll of 3+, the game continues, 
otherwise the game is over. At the end of battle round 6, 
the player who had the second turn must roll a D6. This 
time the game continues on a roll of 4+, otherwise the 
game is over. The battle automatically ends at the end of 
battle round 7. 

VICTORY GDNDITIONS 

At the end of the battle, if a model from a player’s army 
is carrying the Relic (see below), then that player wins a 
major victory. If the Relic is not being carried, then the 
player with a model closest to the Relic wins a minor 
victory. If both players have models equally close to the 
Relic, then the battle ends in a draw. 

THE RELIC 

An INFANTRY model can carry the Relic by moving 
into contact with it - that model then automatically 
picks it up. From that point, the Relic remains with the 
model (move the Relic with the model to show this) 
until it is dropped, which only happens if the model is 
slain or flees. A model with the Relic cannot embark in 
a TRANSPORT, leave the battlefield, or move further 
than 9" in any single phase for any reason. 


ALL HAIL THE MARTYRS! ON 
THEIR BLOOD IS OUR IMPERIUM 
FOUNDED, IN THEIR REMEMBRANCE 
DO WE HONOUR OURSELVES. 




SURVIVAL IS NO BIRTHRIGHT, BUT A PRIZE WRESTED FROM AN UNCARING GALAXY BY FORGOTTEN HEROES. 

- *! / Sr. ; v . \ i> t kr.'y.j* 

















ig&, m 

ilPM-:: - 



t| i 


Hi 



Bl t 

■ * i 

AfJ *jU 























,m i -mb a 

piy n 

dJflK^ r®^7T^'fc ! 

R K2*^ ;%. m * 1 

■ V llljlNSigii jS® wj, 

V~v l®k $ ■ ' T®pSSffi V' i£&C ,- 

W m 







War is unpredictable and fluid. Strategic objectives and tactical priorities can change at a moment’s 
notice, and targets of military insignificance can transform into ones of vital importance without 
warning. A good battlefield commander must be dynamic and flexible, prepared to take advantage of an 
opportunity, and ever able to adapt their battleplan to react to a change of orders from above. 


USING TACTICAL OBJECTIVES 

A mission will tell you if it uses Tactical Objectives - 
they are most commonly used by Maelstrom of War 
missions. If it does, you will need to place 6 objective 
markers on the battlefield after setting up terrain, but 
before deploying any units. The objective markers 
should be individually numbered 1 through 6. These 
represent potential sites of tactical or strategic import 
that one or both sides might be called upon to secure. 
After terrain has been set up, the players should roll 
off. Starting with whoever rolled highest, the players 
then alternate placing these objective markers until all 
6 have been set up. Each can be placed anywhere on the 
battlefield, as long as its centre is more than 12" from 
the centre of any other objective marker and more than 
6" from the battlefield edge. 


GENERATING TACTICAL 
OBJECTIVES 

The mission will tell you how many Tactical 
Objectives you should generate at the start of 
each of your turns. 


To generate a Tactical Objective, roll 
two dice, one after the other: the first 
dice represents tens, and the second 
represents digits, giving you a result 
between 11 and 66. Consult the 
Tactical Objectives on the following 
pages and write the corresponding 
result down. Note that unless the 
mission states otherwise, the results are 
not secret; both players should be able to 
see what Tactical Objectives the other has. 


If you own a deck of Tactical Objective 
cards, you can instead generate your 
Tactical Objectives by shuffling the deck 
and drawing the top card. The cards you 
have drawn should be kept face up, so 
your opponent can see which Tactical 
Objectives you have generated, unless 
the mission you are playing instructs 
you otherwise. 

Note that, whilst there are several Tactical 
Objectives with the same name, they 
are all uniquely numbered. When 


generating Tactical Objectives, keep a note of the 
numbers you rolled during the game - if you roll the 
same numbered Tactical Objective during the same 
game, roll again until a different number is generated. 

Tactical Objectives that have been generated are said to 
be active until they are either achieved or discarded. 


STRATAGEMS 

If the mission uses Tactical Objectives, a player can use Command 
Points (CPs) to use the following bonus Stratagem: 


] NEW ORDERS 

) Stratagem 

Use this Stratagem after generating your Tactical 
Objectives at the start of your turn. Immediately discard a 
Tactical Objective and generate a new one. 


ACHIEVING TACTICAL OBJECTIVES 

At the end of every turn (yours and the enemy’s), you 
must check to see if you have achieved any of your 
active Tactical Objectives - the descriptions will tell you 
how and when they are achieved and how many victory 
points are scored for achieving them. If you can achieve 
a Tactical Objective at the end of a turn, you must 
immediately score the victory points for it - you cannot 
choose not to do so. Players can achieve any number of 
their Tactical Objectives in the same turn. 

Many Tactical Objectives require a player to control an 
objective marker. A player controls an objective marker 
if they have more models within 3" of the centre of it 
than their opponent does. 


DISCARDING TACTICAL OBJECTIVES 

Once a Tactical Objective has been achieved, it is 
discarded. After the achieved Tactical Objectives (if 
any) have been discarded, the player whose turn it is can 
select one of their remaining active Tactical Objectives 
and choose to discard it - this scores no victory points. 
Discarded Tactical Objectives cease being active and 
you cannot generate or achieve these objectives for the 
remainder of the game. 


THE TRAITOR CAN SEEK NO SALVATION. 


.J»a: 















SECURE OBJECTIVE 1 


Capture and 
Control 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 


21 H SECURE OBJECTIVE 1 


Take and Hold 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 


Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 1 at the end 
of your turn. 


Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 1 at the end 
of your turn. 


12 H SECURE OBJECTIVE 2 


Capture and 
Control 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 


22 H SECURE OBJECTIVE 2 


Take and Hold 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 


Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 2 at the end 
of your turn. 


Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 2 at the end 
of your turn. 


13 H SECURE ABJECTIVE 3 


Capture and 
Control 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 


23 H SECURE ABJECTIVE 3 


Take and Hold 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 


Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 3 at the end 
of your turn. 


Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 3 at the end 
of your turn. 


14 H SECURE OBJECTIVE 4 


Capture and 
Control 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 


24 W SECURE OBJECTIVE 4 


Take and Hold 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 


Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 4 at the end 
of your turn. 


Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 4 at the end 
of your turn. 


SECURE OBJECTIVES 


Capture and 
Control 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 

Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 5 at the end 
of your turn. 


25 H SECURE ABJECTIVE 5 


Take and Hold 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 

Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 5 at the end 
of your turn. 


IB H SECURE OBJECTIVE B 


Capture and 
Control 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 


2B H SECURE OBJECTIVE B 


Take and Hold 


A vital objective has been identified in your vicinity. You are 
ordered to hold it at any cost. 


Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 6 at the end 
of your turn. 




HP? 


■ v v r i 


Score 1 victory point if you control objective marker 6 at the end 
of your turn. 


I V* j&u* 


. ; 


y.' j ,!k \m. 




y-s. 

AnM 
\_/ 

DEFEND DBJEGTIVE 1 - 

k_/ 

y-v 

Storm and 

k Defend J 



/~ 


ADVANCE 

k_ 

y-s 

Seize Ground 

k_y 



You are charged with the defence of a key objective. It must not be 
permitted to fall into enemy hands. 



You must advance swiftly into no man's land to prevent your 
opponent seizing the battlefield. 



Score 2 victory points if you control objective marker 1 at the 
end of two consecutive turns. 



Score 1 victory point if no unit from your army is within your 
deployment zone at the end of your turn. 


^^ f - 




32 DEFEND OBJECTIVE 2 


Storm and 
Defend 


-V 

K 


You are charged with the defence of a key objective. It must not be 
permitted to fall into enemy hands. 

Score 2 victory points if you control objective marker 2 at the 
end of two consecutive turns. 




33 h DEFEND OBJECTIVE 3 


Storm and 
Defend 


You are charged with the defence of a key objective. It must not be 
permitted to fall into enemy hands. 

Score 2 victory points if you control objective marker 3 at the 
end of two consecutive turns. 





y \ 

34 

k_ / 

DEFEND DBJEGTIVE 4 V 

k > 

/ - \ 

Storm and 

k Defend J 


You are charged with the defence of a key objective. It must not be 
permitted to fall into enemy hands. 

Score 2 victory points if you control objective marker 4 at the 
end of two consecutive turns. 




_ 




35 h DEFEND OBJECTIVE 5 


Storm and 
Defend 


You are charged with the defence of a key objective. It must not be 
permitted to fall into enemy hands. 

Score 2 victory points if you control objective marker 5 at the 
end of two consecutive turns. 


i~ '— 


3B H DEFEND OBJECTIVE B 


Storm and 
Defend 


You are charged with the defence of a key objective. It must not be 
permitted to fall into enemy hands. 

Score 2 victory points if you control objective marker 6 at the 
end of two consecutive turns. 


l 


42 H BEHIND ENEMY LINES 


Seize Ground 


Break through the foe's army and cut off their lines of escape. 

Score 1 victory point if you have at least one unit completely 
within the enemy’s deployment zone at the end of your turn. If 
you have at least three units within your opponent’s deployment 
zone at the end of your turn, score D3 victory points instead. 


43 H 


HOLD THE LINE 


Seize Ground 


It is critical that no foe breaks through your defences. Maintain a 
strong rearguard to protect your supply lines. 

Score 1 victory point if you have at least three units completely 
within your deployment zone, and your opponent has no models 
within your deployment zone, at the end of your turn. This 
objective cannot be achieved on your first turn. 


44 H mission gritigal dbjegtive M 


Seize Ground 


This area is of extreme importance. You are to lead an immediate 
all-out assault to capture it. 

When this Tactical Objective is generated, roll a D6. Score 1 
victory point if you control the corresponding objective marker. 

If the corresponding objective marker was controlled by your 
opponent at the start of your turn and you control it at the end of 
your turn, score D3 victory points instead. 


45 H 


SOPREMACY 


Seize Ground 


The battleground is won one yard at a time. Continue to establish a 
strong military presence in the area. 

Score D3 victory points if you control any three objective 
markers at the end of your turn. 


4GH 


DOMINATION 


Seize Ground 


Dominate the field of battle. Storm every site of tactical import and 
leave the foe with no place to hide. 

Score D3+3 victory points if you control every objective marker 
on the battlefield at the end of your turn. 





A show of strength is required. Scour the enemy from the face of 
the battlefield with the use of extreme firepower. 


Score 1 victory point if an enemy unit was destroyed during 
the Shooting phase of your turn. If 3 or more enemy units were 
destroyed during the Shooting phase of your turn, score D3 
victory points instead. 


-[52 \{ BLDDD AMD GUTS | Purge 

Close with the foe and engage them in hand-to-hand combat. 
Show them no quarter, no mercy. 

Score 1 victory point if an enemy unit was destroyed during 
the Fight phase of this turn. If 3 or more enemy units were 
destroyed during the Fight phase of this turn, score D3 victory 
points instead. 


-^53 W MO PRISONERS J - [ ^ - 

Exterminate your enemy, show them no mercy. 

Score 1 victory point if an enemy unit was destroyed during 
your turn. If between 3 and 5 enemy units were destroyed during 
your turn, score D3 victory points instead. If 6 or more enemy 
units were destroyed during your turn, score D3+3 victory 
points instead. 


45 a W AREA DENIAL Purge j —> 

It is critical that this area is dominated. No enemy vanguard or 
guerilla units can be allowed to disrupt our plans. 

Score 1 victory point if there are no enemy models within 6" of 
the centre of the battlefield at the end of your turn. If there are 
no enemy models within 12" of the centre of the battlefield at the 
end of your turn, score D3 victory points instead. 


Break the enemy's morale, make your foes tremble before you. 


Score 1 victory point if your opponent failed a Morale test during 
this turn. If your opponent failed 3 or more Morale tests, score 
D3 victory points instead. 




Desperate times call for desperate measures - harness the power of 
the warp to defeat your foes. 


Score 1 victory point if you manifested or denied a psychic 
power during this turn. If you manifested or denied 3 or more 
psychic powers, score D3 victory points instead. 


The enemy commander is a powerful and effective leader and 
should be slain as quickly as possible. 


Score D3 victory points if your opponent’s Warlord has been 
destroyed during this or any previous turn. 


The presence of enemy psykers can no longer be tolerated. 
Eliminate them with extreme prejudice. 


Score 1 victory point if at least one enemy PSYKER was 
destroyed during this turn. 


It is vital to maintain air superiority. 


Score 1 victory point if at least one enemy unit that can FLY was 
destroyed during this turn. 


The enemy looks to their champions for courage. Identify and 
assassinate them. 


Score 1 victory point if at least one enemy CHARACTER was 
destroyed during this turn. If 3 or more enemy CHARACTERS 
were destroyed during this turn, score D3 victory points instead. 


The larger the foe, the greater the glory... 


Score 1 victory point if at least one enemy unit with a Wounds 
characteristic of 10 or more was destroyed during this turn. If at 
least one enemy unit with a Wounds characteristic of 20 or more 
was destroyed this turn, score D3 victory points instead. 


This mission is of the utmost importance, and cannot be entrusted 
to anyone else. 


When this Tactical Objective is generated, immediately generate 
a bonus Tactical Objective - this does not count towards the 
number of Active Tactical Objectives you currently have in 
play. Your Warlord is the only unit that can be used to achieve 
the bonus Tactical Objective - they must be the only unit used 
to control an objective marker, the unit that destroys the last 
model in an enemy unit, and so on. If you achieve this, you score 
both the number of victory points stated on the bonus Tactical 
Objective and an additional 3 victory points. If this Tactical 
Objective is discarded, so too is the bonus Tactical Objective. 





















n 


mm 

v>' 


BETWEEN THE STARS 
THE ANCIENT UNSEEN 
ENEMIES OF MANKIND 
WAIT AND HUNGER. 
EVERY VOYAGE INTO 
THE NOTHING IS A 
CONFRONTATION WITH 
HORROR, WITH THE 
IMPLACABLE THINGS OF 
THE WARP, AND WITH 
MAN’S INNERMOST FEAR. 


••v-sfE 


MAELSTROM OF WAR 

CLEANSE AND CAPTURE 

The evidence of war can be clearly seen all across the battlefield as the wounded cry for 
aid and vital resources are at risk of falling into enemy hands. Search for and recover 
these artefacts at all costs and eliminate any enemy forces that dare oppose you. 


THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an 
agreed points limit. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. Next, 
the players should place 6 objective markers, 
as detailed on page 226. 

DEPLOYMENT 

The player who placed the sixth objective 
marker determines which of the standard 
deployment maps is used in the battle 
(pg 216) and picks one of the deployment 
zones on the map for their army. Their 
opponent uses the other deployment zone. 

The players then alternate deploying their 
units, one at a time, starting with the player 
who did not pick their deployment zone. A 
player’s models must be set up within their 
own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 

FIRST TURN 

The player who finished setting up their army 
first can choose to take the first or second 
turn. If they decide to take the first turn, their 
opponent can roll a dice; on a roll of 6, they 
manage to seize the initiative, and they get the 
first turn instead! 

TAGTIGAL OBJECTIVES 

This mission uses Tactical Objectives. If, at the 
start of a player’s turn, they have fewer than 3 
active Tactical Objectives, they must generate 
Tactical Objectives until they have 3. 


V 


‘ - X : ' 

I ? 


BATTLE LENGTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who 
had the first turn must roll a D6. On a roll 
of 3+, the game continues, otherwise the 
game is over. At the end of battle round 6, 
the player who had the second turn must 
roll a D6. This time the game continues on 
a roll of 4+, otherwise the game is over. The 
battle automatically ends at the end of battle 
round 7. 






VIGTDRY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has 
scored the most victory points is the winner. 

If both players have the same number of 
victory points, the game is a draw. In addition 
to achieving Tactical Objectives, victory 
points are achieved for the following: 

Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord 
has been slain during the battle, you score 1 
victory point. 

First Blood: The first unit, of any kind, to be 
destroyed during the battle is worth 1 victory 
point to the opposing player at the end of the 
game. If two or more units from opposing 
forces are destroyed simultaneously, then both 
players get 1 victory point. 

Linebreaker: If, at the end of the battle, you 
have at least one model within the enemy’s 
deployment zone, you score 1 victory point. 


"i) J#? 



THE TRULY HEROIC TRUST IN BLIND FAITH. 


IE0SI $ 








MAELSTROM OF WAR 

CONTACT LOST 





••I 

\ : 4 




THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an 
agreed points limit. 


THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. Next, 
the players should place 6 objective markers, 
as detailed on page 226. 


DEPLOYMENT 

The player who placed the sixth objective 
marker determines which of the standard 
deployment maps is used in the battle 
(pg 216) and picks one of the deployment 
zones on the map for their army. Their 
opponent uses the other deployment zone. 

The players then alternate deploying their 
units, one at a time, starting with the player 
who did not pick their deployment zone. A 
players models must be set up within their 
own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 

FIRST TDRN 

The player who finished setting up their army 
first can choose to take the first or second 
turn. If they decide to take the first turn, their 
opponent can roll a dice; on a roll of 6, they 
manage to seize the initiative, and they get the 
first turn instead! 

TAETIGAL OBJECTIVES 

This mission uses Tactical Objectives. Each 
player generates 1 Tactical Objective at 
the start of their first turn. In subsequent 
turns, if a player has fewer than 6 active 
Tactical Objectives, they must generate 1 
Tactical Objective for each objective marker 
they control (to a maximum of 6 active 
Tactical Objectives). 


All contact with command has been lost and the enemy are doubtless advancing 
towards your position. Secure sites of tactical import to re-establish communications 
with all due haste and engage any hostile forces encountered with extreme prejudice. 




THE REWARD FOR TREACHERY IS RETRIBUTION. 


TEMPORARY GDMMS UPLINK 

) Stratagem 

Provided you have fewer than 6 active Tactical 
Objectives, you can use this Stratagem to immediately 
generate 1 extra Tactical Objective. 


BATTLE LENGTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who 
had the first turn must roll a D6. On a roll 
of 3+, the game continues, otherwise the 
game is over. At the end of battle round 6, the 
player who had the second turn must roll a 
D6. This time the game continues on a roll 
of 4+, otherwise the game is over. The battle 
automatically ends at the end of battle round 7. 

VICTORY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has 
scored the most victory points is the winner. 

If both players have the same number of 
victory points, the game is a draw. In addition 
to achieving Tactical Objectives, victory 
points are achieved for the following: 

Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord 
has been slain during the battle, you score 1 
victory point. 

First Blood: The first unit, of any kind, to be 
destroyed during the battle is worth 1 victory 
point to the opposing player at the end of the 
game. If two or more units from opposing 
forces are destroyed simultaneously, then both 
players get 1 victory point. 

Linebreaker: If, at the end of the battle, you 
have at least one model within the enemy’s 
deployment zone, you score 1 victory point. 


IN AN HOUR OF 
DARKNESS A BLIND MAN 
IS THE BEST GUIDE. IN 
AN AGE OF INSANITY 
LOOK TO THE MADMAN 
TO SHOW THE WAY 




n TEMPORARY CDMMS UPLINK 

Stratagem 

Provided you have fewer than 6 active Tactical 
Objectives, you can use this Stratagem to immediately 
generate 1 extra Tactical Objective. 





















What began as a simple raid has long since escalated into full-blown battle, as both sides commit more 
and more forces to the fray. With every moment that passes, more combatants engage the enemy and 
another mission-critical target is identified. 


THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an agreed 
points limit. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. Next, the 
players should place 6 objective markers, as detailed on 
page 226. 

DEPLOYMENT 

The player who placed the sixth objective marker 
determines which of the standard deployment maps 
is used in the battle (pg 216) and picks one of the 
deployment zones on the map for their army. Their 
opponent uses the other deployment zone. 

The players then alternate deploying their units, one at 
a time, starting with the player who did not pick their 
deployment zone. A player’s models must be set up 
within their own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 

FIRST TURN 

The player who finished setting up their army first can 
choose to take the first or second turn. If they decide to 
take the first turn, their opponent can roll a dice; on a 
roll of 6, they manage to seize the initiative, and they get 
the first turn instead! 


TACTICAL OBJECTIVES 

This mission uses Tactical Objectives. If, at the start of a 
player’s turn, they have fewer active Tactical Objectives 
than the current battle round number, they must 
generate Tactical Objectives until they have a number 
equal to the current battle round number. 

TACTICAL PRIORITY 

At the start of the first battle round, but before the first 
turn begins, each player nominates a single Tactical 
Objective type (e.g. Take and Hold). You score an 
additional victory point for each Tactical Objective of 
that type you achieve. However, you lose a victory point 
each time you discard a Tactical Objective of that type. 

BATTLE LENBTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who had the first 
turn must roll a D6. On a roll of 3+, the game continues, 
otherwise the game is over. At the end of battle round 6, 
the player who had the second turn must roll a D6. This 
time the game continues on a roll of 4+, otherwise the 
game is over. The battle automatically ends at the end of 
battle round 7. 

VIETDRY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has scored the 
most victory points is the winner. If both players have 
the same number of victory points, the game is a draw. 
In addition to achieving Tactical Objectives, victory 
points are achieved for the following: 


Mission Priorities: If, at the end of the game, one 
player has achieved more Tactical Objectives of their 
nominated type (see Tactical Priority, above) than their 
opponent has of their own nominated type, that player 
receives 1 additional victory point. 

Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord has been slain 
during the battle, you score 1 victory point. 


First Blood: The first unit, of any kind, to be 
destroyed during the battle is worth 1 victory point 
to the opposing player at the end of the game. If two 
or more units from opposing forces are destroyed 
simultaneously, then both players get 1 victory point. 

Linebreaker: If, at the end of the battle, you have at 
least one model within the enemy’s deployment zone, 
you score 1 victory point. 


IT IS BETTER TO DIE FOR THE EMPEROR THAN TO LIVE FOR YOURSELF. 


mi 


MAELSTROM OF WAR 

TACTICAL ESCALATION 














MAELSTROM OF WAR 

SPOILS OF WAR 

A vital resupply convoy has been intercepted and its cargo lost in the deserted ground 
of no man’s land. You must reclaim these spoils of war before the enemy can reach 
them, whilst inflicting as much damage upon the foe as possible. 


THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an 
agreed points limit. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. Next, 
the players should place 6 objective markers, 
as detailed on page 226. 

DEPLOYMENT 

The player who placed the sixth objective 
marker determines which of the standard 
deployment maps is used in the battle 
(pg 216) and picks one of the deployment 
zones on the map for their army. Their 
opponent uses the other deployment zone. 

The players then alternate deploying their 
units, one at a time, starting with the player 
who did not pick their deployment zone. A 
players models must be set up within their 
own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 

FIRST TDRN 

The player who finished setting up their army 
first can choose to take the first or second 
turn. If they decide to take the first turn, their 
opponent can roll a dice; on a roll of 6, they 
manage to seize the initiative, and they get the 
first turn instead! 

TACTICAL OBJECTIVES 

This mission uses Tactical Objectives. If, at the 
start of a player’s turn, they have fewer than 3 
active Tactical Objectives, they must generate 
Tactical Objectives until they have 3. 

PRECIOUS CARGO 

In this mission, both players can achieve 
any active Tactical Objective titled ‘Secure 
Objective X’, where X is a number between 1 
and 6, regardless of which player generated it. 
In addition, these Tactical Objectives can only 
be discarded when achieved. 


BATTLE LENGTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who 
had the first turn must roll a D6. On a roll 
of 3+, the game continues, otherwise the 
game is over. At the end of battle round 6, 
the player who had the second turn must 
roll a D6. This time the game continues on 
a roll of 4+, otherwise the game is over. The 
battle automatically ends at the end of battle 
round 7. 

VICTORY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has 
scored the most victory points is the winner. 

If both players have the same number of 
victory points, the game is a draw. In addition 
to achieving Tactical Objectives, victory 
points are achieved for the following: 

Steal the Loot: If, at the end of the game, 
one player has achieved more ‘Secure 
Objective X’ Tactical Objectives (see Precious 
Cargo, above) than their opponent has, that 
player receives 1 additional victory point. 

Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord 
has been slain during the battle, you score 1 
victory point. 

First Blood: The first unit, of any kind, to be 
destroyed during the battle is worth 1 victory 
point to the opposing player at the end of the 
game. If two or more units from opposing 
forces are destroyed simultaneously, then both 
players get 1 victory point. 

Linebreaker: If, at the end of the battle, you 
have at least one model within the enemy’s 
deployment zone, you score 1 victory point. 



WE DO NOT HATE THE 
ALIEN BECAUSE HE IS 
DIFFERENT, WE HATE 
THE ALIEN BECAUSE HE 
HAS NAUGHT BUT HATE 
IN HIS HEART FOR US. 



4 



KNOW THE MUTANT; KILL THE MUTANT! 


233 





I 

y 


MAELSTROM OF WAR 

CLOAK AND SHADOWS 

Enemy patrols are operating in this area, searching the battlefield for some critical objectives. Scout the 
area under cover of darkness and discover their plans, but be sure not to reveal your own goals. If you can 
deny the enemy’s objectives whilst achieving yours, victory will be assured. 


THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an agreed 
points limit. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. Next, the 
players should place 6 objective markers, as detailed on 
page 226. 

DEPLOYMENT 

The player who placed the sixth objective marker 
determines which of the standard deployment maps 
is used in the battle (pg 216) and picks one of the 
deployment zones on the map for their army. Their 
opponent uses the other deployment zone. 

The players then alternate deploying their units, one at 
a time, starting with the player who did not pick their 
deployment zone. A players models must be set up 
within their own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 

FIRST TURN 

The player who finished setting up their army first can 
choose to take the first or second turn. If they decide to 
take the first turn, their opponent can roll a dice; on a 
roll of 6, they manage to seize the initiative, and they get 
the first turn instead! 

TACTICAL OBJECTIVES 

This mission uses Tactical Objectives. If, at the start of 
a player’s turn, they have fewer than 3 active Tactical 
Objectives, they must generate Tactical Objectives until 
they have 3. 

SECRET ORDERS 

In this mission, players keep their Tactical Objectives 
secret from each other. Only reveal Tactical Objectives 
when achieving them. 

COVER OF DARKNESS 

When rolling to hit in the Shooting phase, subtract 1 
from the roll if the target is more than 18" away. 


STRATAGEMS 

In this mission, players can use Command Points (CPs) to use the 
following additional Stratagem: 

flares ^ 

\ s Stratagem 

Select an enemy unit. For the duration of your turn, your 
units can shoot at that unit without penalty from Cover 
. of Darkness. . 


BATTLE LENGTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who had the first 
turn must roll a D6. On a roll of 3+, the game continues, 
otherwise the game is over. At the end of battle round 6, 
the player who had the second turn must roll a D6. This 
time the game continues on a roll of 4+, otherwise the 
game is over. The battle automatically ends at the end of 
battle round 7. 

VICTORY cdnditidns 

At the end of the game, the player who has scored the 
most victory points is the winner. If both players have 
the same number of victory points, the game is a draw. 
In addition to achieving Tactical Objectives, victory 
points are achieved for the following: 

Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord has been slain 
during the battle, you score 1 victory point. 

First Blood: The first unit, of any kind, to be 
destroyed during the battle is worth 1 victory point 
to the opposing player at the end of the game. If two 
or more units from opposing forces are destroyed 
simultaneously, then both players get 1 victory point. 

Linebreaker: If, at the end of the battle, you have at 
least one model within the enemy’s deployment zone, 
you score 1 victory point. 


V 


IF YOU CANNOT SPEAK WELL OF YOUR MASTER BE SILENT! 








THE ARMIES 

Each player selects a Battle-forged army to an 
agreed points limit. 


THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield and set up terrain. Next, 
the players should place 6 objective markers, 
as detailed on page 226. 


DEPLOYMENT 

The player who placed the sixth objective 
marker determines which of the standard 
deployment maps is used in the battle 
(pg 216) and picks one of the deployment 
zones on the map for their army. Their 
opponent uses the other deployment zone. 


The players then alternate deploying their 
units, one at a time, starting with the player 
who did not pick their deployment zone. A 
players models must be set up within their 
own deployment zone. Continue setting up 
units until both sides have set up their army. 


FIRST TDRN 

The player who finished setting up their army 
first can choose to take the first or second 
turn. If they decide to take the first turn, their 
opponent can roll a dice; on a roll of 6, they 
manage to seize the initiative, and they get the 
first turn instead! 


TACTICAL OBJECTIVES 

This mission uses Tactical Objectives. Each 
player generates 6 Tactical Objectives at the 
start of their first turn. In the second battle 
round, players may have 5 active Tactical 
Objectives, in the third battle round they may 
have 4, and so on. If a player has too many 
active Tactical Objectives at the start of their 
turn, they must discard Tactical Objectives 
until they have the correct number. If a player 
has fewer than the correct number of Tactical 
Objectives at the start of their turn, they must 
generate Tactical Objectives until they have 
the correct number. 


BATTLE LENGTH 

At the end of battle round 5, the player who 
had the first turn must roll a D6. On a roll 
of 3+, the game continues, otherwise the 
game is over. At the end of battle round 6, 
the player who had the second turn must 
roll a D6. This time the game continues on 
a roll of 4+, otherwise the game is over. The 
battle automatically ends at the end of battle 
round 7. 


STRATEGIC DEADLOCK 
From the start of the third battle round, the 
Command Point cost of all Stratagems used 
by players is doubled. 


VICTORY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has 
scored the most victory points is the winner. 
If both players have the same number of 
victory points, the game is a draw. In addition 
to achieving Tactical Objectives, victory 
points are achieved for the following: 


Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord 
has been slain during the battle, you score 1 
victory point. 


First Blood: The first unit, of any kind, to be 
destroyed during the battle is worth 1 victory 
point to the opposing player at the end of the 
game. If two or more units from opposing 
forces are destroyed simultaneously, then both 
players get 1 victory point. 


Linebreaker: If, at the end of the battle, you 
have at least one model within the enemy’s 
deployment zone, you score 1 victory point. 


TO A SPACE MARINE 
THE BOLTGUN IS FAR 
MORE THAN A WEAPON, 
IT IS AN INSTRUMENT 
OF MANKIND’S 
DIVINITY, THE BRINGER 
OF DEATH TO HIS FOES, 
WHOSE HOWLING 
BLAST IS A PRAYER TO 
THE GODS OF BATTLE. 


£h . - 


DO NOT QUESTION THE WILL OF THE EMPEROR! 


! 


tyV t‘F ■!., 


MAELSTROM OF WAR 

DEADLOCK 


Months of bitter fighting have ended in a deadlock, but a fleeting opportunity has 
arisen for you to strike a devastating blow against the enemy to tip the balance of 
the war. Strike hard and fast, for with every moment you delay, your tactical options 
dwindle and the chance for victory slips away. 


235 

















‘Warriors of Ultramar. This is 
where we make our stand. If death 
is to be our fate, then we shall meet 
it with the Emperor’s word on our 
lips and his light in our eyes. If we 
must die, we will die; but we shall 
never yield.’ 

- Marneus Calgar, 
Lord of Macragge 









°1 O « 






T» 

*■ 

7 

[ 


r. 



T 



A LOGICAL ARGUMENT MUST BE DISMISSED WITH ABSOLUTE CONVICTION! 


Emperor. Let them die 
and be forgotten.’ 


- Prime Edicts of the 
Holy Synod of the 
Adeptus Ministorum 


By now, you’ve scratched the surface of the many ways that you can enjoy the 
Warhammer 40,000 hobby. The missions that you have already seen are just the 
beginning - there are always new ways to play and battles to fight! 


BATTLE-FORGED 

ARMIES 

Battle-forged armies give you the 
opportunity to organise your models 
in a way that reflects the Factions of 
Warhammer 40,000 as they would be 
deployed. These battlefield organisations 
place restrictions on how you form 
your army, but in exchange provide 
powerful benefits. 

BATTLEFIELD TERRAIN 

The battlefield terrain rules describe 
many of the terrain features found upon 
your battlefields, from twisted woods and 
shattered ruins to makeshift barricades 
and the statues of mighty heroes. These 
rules help to bring your battlefield to life 
and introduce a new tactical dimension 
to your games, as both armies deploy and 
manoeuvre across the battlefield to take 
best advantage of the terrain. 

THE BATTLEZONES 

Battlezones offer an interesting and 
often dangerous twist to your games 
by introducing exciting environmental 
effects - the galaxy, after all, holds billions 
of alien worlds. Across myriad star 
systems, on battlefields of ice, lava, jungle 
and ash, armies engage in mortal conflict. 
A planet might be beset by radioactive 
dust storms, shrouded in perpetual 
darkness or be saturated with warp-stuff. 
Incorporating these effects into your 
games with the Battlezone rules is a great 
way to test the mettle of any commander. 

Battlezone rules can be used to enhance 
any mission. They include additional 
rules and Stratagems that reflect a specific 
kind of battlefield, sometimes at a specific 
time. Battlezone rules usually have an 
equal chance of affecting both players, 
and simply choosing to fight your battle 
in a particular battlezone will present you 
with new tactical challenges. 


EXPANSIONS 

Warhammer 40,000 expansions provide 
new ways to use your collections, and 
allow you to tailor your tactics for 
battle across many theatres of war. The 
Warhammer 40,000 rules are but the tip 
of the iceberg in a wider hobby where you 
can fight massive battles with vast armies 
on each side, tense squad-focussed 
actions amidst the ruins of an Imperial 
city, or storm your enemy’s lines with an 
orbital assault spearheaded by Drop Pods 
and Flyers - anything is possible! 

This section will introduce four 
expansions: Planetstrike, Stronghold 
Assault, Cities of Death and Death 
from the Skies. Each of these examines 
a different exciting aspect of warfare in 
Warhammer 40,000 and modifies the 
core rules to better reflect that style of 
battle. Sometimes these changes are 
subtle; at other times they dramatically 
alter the way in which you can use your 
force on the battlefield. Expansions 
are great for all styles of play, whether 
bringing events from the background 
to life, or pitching your forces into new 
situations which will test your ability as a 
commander to the limit. 


PLANETSTRIKE 

Planetstrike is about planetary invasion 
- orbital bombardments rain down, 
hammering defenders as the attackers 
deploy their troops by dropship and 
teleport strike. Meanwhile, the defenders 
blaze away with mighty weapons from 
their fortifications and ready their elite 
troops to repel the invaders. The first 
blows of such a war can decide the fate 
of a world, and no quarter will be asked 
or given. The short introduction to 
Planetstrike later in this section provides 
rules to represent the conditions of this 
type of battle, as well as a Planetstrike 
mission, ‘Planetfall’, so you can get a taste 
of planetary invasion straight away. 


‘When the people 
forget their duty, they 
are no longer human 
and become something 
less than beasts. They 
have no place in the 
bosom of Humanity 
nor in the heart of the 


ADVANCED RDLES 
















CITIES OF DEATH 

Vicious urban combat is best recreated 
using the Cities of Death expansion. 
Fighting a pitched battle across a barren 
plain is one thing, but a warlord finds 
a whole new set of challenges when 
fighting a battle through the war-torn 
streets of one of the galaxy’s innumerable 
cities. Bitter, short-ranged fighting is 
the order of the day, with booby traps 
and snipers making every step into the 
unknown perilous. Amidst the tangled 
ruins and rubble, unassuming buildings 
might prove to hold valuable caches or 
medical supplies, while high ground 
is sought by both sides so they might 
command the battlefield. The overview 
of Cities of Death later in this section 
includes the rules you need to fight these 
claustrophobic battles, and a Cities of 
Death mission, ‘Firesweep’, so you can 
conduct urban warfare yourself. 


STRONGHOLD ASSAULT 

Stronghold Assault focusses on siege 
warfare. These gruelling battles are 
amongst the greatest attacker-versus- 
defender battles in the galaxy, with 
armies locked in combat in blood-soaked 
trenches, or throwing themselves against 
the walls of monolithic fortresses that 
bristle with automated weapons systems. 
The Stronghold Assault introduction 
includes rules for incorporating 
fortifications into your battles. It also 
includes the ‘Bunker Assault’ mission, 
which will test both warlords’ siege-craft. 


DEATH FROM THE SKIES 

Aerial combat between squadrons 
of deadly aircraft lies at the heart of 
the Death from the Skies expansion. 
Bombers wreak havoc on undefended 
forces on the ground, even as agile 
fighter craft scramble to intercept them. 
Furious dogfights are fought above the 
battlefield, where daring pilots engage in 
duels that could decide the outcome of 
the war, for whoever can dominate the 
skies will surely secure victory on the 
ground. The introduction to Death from 
the Skies later in this section includes 
rules for adding a Dogfight phase to your 
Warhammer 40,000 battles, as well as the 
‘Tactical Strike’ mission which you can 
use to earn your wings. 



MULTIPLAYER BATTLES 

The confusion of battle is only 
compounded when there are more than 
two warring parties. Each force finds 
enemies to either side, commanders 
strike temporary alliances that are broken 
almost as quickly as they are made, and 
the centre of the battlefield becomes 
a killing ground from which few will 
escape. Awareness of the forces arrayed 
against you is crucial, and a glory-hungry 
warlord who seizes the initiative may find 
the tables turned on them in an instant. 
This section presents a multiplayer 
mission, ‘Carnage’, alongside rules for 
fighting these chaotic battles. 


CAMPAIGNS 

Few wars end with a single battle, instead 
becoming brutal campaigns as warriors 
and war machines slaughter each other in 
a relentless and recurring clash of wills. 

In such contests are heroes born and 
legends made. Campaigns are an exciting 
and engaging way to enable players to 
fight a series of linked battles, adding 
new dimensions to your hobby. They are 
great for taking individual battles and 
giving them a significance that runs into 
the next game and even beyond, where 
victory and defeat have consequences for 


‘STRIVE, MY BROTHERS, 
TO CAGE THE BEAST 
WITHIN, FOR ITS 
CRIMSON THIRST SHALL 
MAKE MONSTERS OF 
US ALL. YET KNOW 
THAT, SHOULD EVER 
THE BEAST BREAK FREE, 
THE SHAME OF THAT 
MOMENT CAN ONLY 
BE SALVED THROUGH 
THE UNMITIGATED 
SLAUGHTER OF THE FOE.’ 

- Veteran Sergeant Gabrian, 
Blood Angels 6th Company 



not just the battle, but the war. 

You can make a campaign out of any 
of the missions presented in this book, 
those in other Warhammer 40,000 
publications, or those of your own 
creation. This section introduces some 
principles about campaigns, and provides 
a few suggestions about how to play tree, 
matrix and map campaigns, alongside a 
few examples to get you started. 

AND MUCH MORE... 

As you can see, there’s a wealth of 
missions and extra rules for you to get 
stuck into in this section, but that’s not 
the end of it. There are always new rules, 
missions and expansions, so keep an eye 
on games-workshop.com for the latest 
releases. You may also find yourself 
inspired to write and fight your own 
missions - and we highly recommend 
it! The more you put into your hobby, 
the more rewards you will find waiting 
for you. 













✓ 


<Ur 



FACTIONS 


BATTLE-FORGED 

ARMIES 


All armies, from the contingents of the T’au to the warbands of the Orks, are - 
to a greater or lesser extent - structured forces. This section explains how you 
can organise your units into Detachments; a group of units that fight together 
and gain a strategic or tactical bonus for doing so. 


If a mission you are playing instructs you 
to select a Battle-forged army, it means 
that you must organise all the units in 
your army into Detachments. 


Each Detachment may contain the 
following information: 


An army can include any number of 
Detachments and you can mix them 
together however you like. On pages 243- 
245, you will find several Detachments 
that can be used with any army, and more 
will be published in other sources. 


Battlefield Role Slots: These show the 
number of units of each Battlefield Role 
(see right) that you must, or may, include 
in the Detachment. 


Dedicated Transports: This details 
how many Dedicated Transport units the 
Detachment can include (if any). 


To include a particular Detachment in 
your army, simply organise some or all 
of your units so that they fit within the 
restrictions and limitations detailed 
for that particular Detachment. A 
unit cannot belong to more than one 
Detachment, and you will often need 
to use additional information found on 
a unit’s datasheet, such as Faction and 
Battlefield Role (see below and right) to 
determine where it fits in a Detachment. 


Restrictions: This lists any restrictions 
that apply to the types of units you may 
include in the Detachment. 


Command Benefits: This lists any 
bonuses that apply if you include this 
Detachment in your army. 


All units belong to one or more of the many Factions that fight for 
dominance across the galaxy. A unit’s Faction is important when 
building a Battle-forged army because some Detachments require all 
units included in it to be from the same Faction. The Factions that a unit 
belongs to will be listed in the keywords section of its datasheet. For 
example, a Space Marine Captain has the IMPERIUM and ADEPTUS 
ASTARTES keywords, so belongs to both the Imperium and Adeptus 
Astartes Factions. This means that if a Space Marine Captain was part of 
a Detachment with the restriction that all units must be from 
the same Faction, all other units in that Detachment 
must either be from the Imperium Faction, 
or they must all be from the Adeptus 


Astartes Faction. 


1 o 


240 


% ' Mr gc 


Ksb m 


mmm oan 









Elites 


Troops 




i 

‘ J 


BATTLEFIELD ROLE 

However you choose your army, all units have a Battlefield Role, 
which is typically shown as a symbol. Apart from providing 
a useful overview of the types of duties a unit is meant to 
perform, the role is also of importance when it comes to using 
Detachments. The most common Battlefield Roles are shown here. 

-*Jrv '*V 

W ' 'A. % v/, 




Fast Attack Heavy Support Dedicated Transport 


Fortification Lord of War 




















o 

■ 

’ 


BATTLEFIELD ROLE SLOTS 

This section of a Detachment’s rules lists the minimum 
and maximum number of units in each Battlefield Role 
that you must or may include in the Detachment. 

The icons on a Detachment are referred to as slots. 

Each slot will typically specify a single Battlefield Role. 
Each slot allows you to take one unit. Red icons are 
compulsory selections - you must take at least this 
many units of the appropriate Battlefield Role to include 
the Detachment in your army. Grey icons are optional 
selections - you can include up to this number of units 
with the appropriate Battlefield Role when including 
the Detachment in your army. Any further units of the 
same Battlefield Role will need to be taken in a different 
Detachment. For example, in order to take a Battalion 
Detachment - which you can see on the facing page - 
you must select three units with the Troops Battlefield 
Role, and cannot include more than six Troops units in 
the Detachment. 

Occasionally, a Detachment slot will specify two or 
more Battlefield Roles, in which case any unit that has 
one of the specified roles may be taken in that slot. 
Rarely, a slot will not specify a Battlefield Role, in which 
case any type of unit can be taken, or it will specify a 
particular unit or units, in which case only those may 
be taken. 


RESTRICTIONS 

This section of a Detachment’s rules lists any additional 
restrictions that apply to the units you can include as 
part of the Detachment. If a datasheet does not adhere 
to a particular restriction, it cannot be included as part 
of the Detachment. The most common restriction is that 
all of the units included in a Detachment must be from 
the same Faction. 

COMMAND BENEFITS 

This section of a Detachment’s rules lists any bonuses 
that apply if you include the Detachment in your army. 
Typically, the inclusion of a Detachment will increase 
the total number of Command Points your army has 
available to spend on Stratagems. 


COMMAND POINTS 

When you build a Battle-forged army, it will have a 
number of Command Points. These can be spent to 
utilise Stratagems - each of which represents a strategic 
or tactical asset available to your army. 

All Battle-forged armies start with 3 Command Points. 
The simplest way to accrue more Command Points is to 
take more Detachments - many of which increase your 
total number of Command Points. 


UNDERSTRENGTH UNITS 

Each unit’s datasheet will describe how many models 
make up that unit. Sometimes you may find that you 
do not have enough models to field a minimum-sized 
unit; if this is the case, you can still include one unit 
of that type in your army with as many models as you 
have available. 

If you are using points, you must still pay the points 
cost as if you had a minimum-sized unit, even though it 
contains fewer models. An understrength unit still takes 
up the appropriate slot in a Detachment. 


You can spend Command Points to use a Stratagem 
before or during a battle. Each time you use a Stratagem, 
reduce your Command Points total by the appropriate 
amount. If you do not have enough Command Points 
for a specific Stratagem, you cannot use it. Unless 
otherwise noted, you can use the same Stratagem 
multiple times during the course of a battle. 

The different Stratagems available to players depend on 
the mission they are playing. Players can always use the 
three Stratagems presented below, but some missions, 
battlezones and expansions may introduce additional 
Stratagems to your battles. 


STRATAGEMS 

If a player has a Battle-forged army, they may spend Command Points (CPs) to use the following Stratagems in any mission they play. 



THOSE WHO EMBRACE THE SHADOW ARE SLAVES TO THE DARKNESS, THRALLS OF DESPAIR. 



















« * o. _ r o o votf 





iat? 


\ \ 


PATROL DETACHMENT 


o 


HQ 


0008 ® 



Dedicated 
Transports: May 
include 1 for each 


other choice. 


Troops 


V 


1-3 


Elites 

0-2 


Fast Attack Heavy Support Flyers 
0-2 0-2 0-2 


Restrictions: All units must be from the same Faction. 
Command Benefits: None. 




BATTALION DETACHMENT 


X 




Dedicated 
Transports: May 
include 1 for each 


other choice. 


Restrictions: All units must be from the same Faction. 


Command Benefits: +3 Command Points. 


Troops Elites Fast Attack Heavy Support Flyers 

3-6 0-6 0-3 0-3 0-2 


V 




s 


BRIGADE DETACHMENT 


9 


HQ 






Dedicated Transports: May 

include 1 for each other choice. 


Restrictions: All units must be from 
the same Faction. 


Elites 

3-8 


Fast Attack Heavy Support Flyers 
3-5 3-5 0-2 




I 


I 


i 



TO QUESTION YOUR MASTER IS TO BETRAY THE EMPEROR. 








243 



flhS 


































































J 


//■ 




mmm 


o 


I 


VANGUARD DETACHMENT 


X 


0 


HQ 


0§0 



Dedicated 
Transports: May 
include 1 for each 
other choice. 


Troops 

0-3 


Elites 

3-6 


Fast Attack Heavy Support Flyers 
0-2 0-2 0-2 


Restrictions: All units must be from the same Faction. 
Command Benefits: +1 Command Point. 


s 


SPEARHEAD DETACHMENT 


X 


0 


HQ 


0 b ^ flb 



Dedicated 
Transports: May 
include 1 for each 
other choice. 


Troops 

0-3 


Elites Fast Attack Heavy Support Flyers 
0-2 0-2 3-6 0-2 


Restrictions: All units must be from the same Faction. 
Command Benefits: +1 Command Point. 


V 




OUTRIDER DETACHMENT 


0 


HQ 

1-2 





Dedicated 
Transports: May 
include 1 for each 
other choice. 


Troops 


0-3 


Elites Fast Attack Heavy Support 

0-2 3-6 0-2 


Flyers 

0-2 


Restrictions: All units must be from the same Faction. 


Command Benefits: +1 Command Point. 


y 







. 1 































































SUPREME COMMAND DETACHMENT 


Dedicated 
Transports: May 

include 1 for each 
other choice. 


Restrictions: All units must be from the same Faction. 


Elites 

0-1 


Lord of War 
0-1 


Command Benefits: +1 Command Point. 


SUPER-HEAVY 

DETACHMENT 


AIR WING 
DETACHMENT 


3-5 Lords of War 


Restrictions: All units must be from the same Faction. 


Restrictions: All units must be from the same Faction. 


Command Benefits: +3 Command Points. 


Command Benefits: +1 Command Point. 


FORTIFICATION 

NETWORK 


SUPER-HEAVY 
AUXILIARY DETACHMENT 


QQQ 


1 Lord of War 


1-3 Fortifications 


Restrictions: None. 


Restrictions: None. 


Command Benefits: None. 


Command Benefits: None. 


AUXILIARY SUPPORT DETACHMENT 


Restrictions: This Detachment can only include a single unit. 

Command Benefits: -1 Command Point. Note that unlike other Detachments, you lose 1 Command Point for each Auxiliary Support 
Detachment in your army. These are deducted from your total after adding up the bonuses from all other sources. 













































Hissing and roaring, the living tide of Hive Fleet Leviathan surges across the war-torn battlefields of Praxis II. Against this alien horror 
stands the Astra Militarum, its mighty battle tanks rising like mobile fortresses from amongst the steely eyed Imperial ranks. 




















A CLOSED MIND IS DEFENCE AGAINST SEDITION. 


RUINS 

The galaxy is littered with the 
remains of once-proud cities. 

Unless they can FLY, VEHICLES, 
MONSTERS and BIKES can only 
end their move on the ground floor 
of ruins. 

INFANTRY are assumed to be able 
to scale walls and traverse through 
windows, doors and portals readily. 
These models can therefore move 
through the floors and walls of a 
ruin without further impediment. 

INFANTRY units that are on a ruin 
receive the benefit of cover. Other 
units only receive the benefit of 
cover if at least 50% of every model 
is actually obscured from the point 
of view of the shooting unit. 


WOODS 

Twisted woodlands grow 
on many a corpse-strewn 
battlefield. 


INFANTRY units that are entirely 
on the base of a wood receive the 
benefit of cover. If your wood is 
not on a base, discuss with your 
opponent what the boundary of the 
wood is before the battle begins. 
Other units only receive the benefit 
of cover if at least 50% of every 
model is actually obscured from the 
point of view of the shooting unit. 


Models are slowed when charging 
through woods. If, when a unit 
charges, one or more of its models 
have to move across a wood’s base, 
you must subtract 2" from the unit’s 
charge distance. 






BATTLEFIELD TERRAIN 

In this section, you will find expanded terrain rules. You do not need to use these rules to enjoy 
a battle - the rules for cover detailed in the core rules will suffice to shelter your warriors from 
incoming fire - but they will add a new dimension to your battlefield and help bring it to life. 


i 




















CRATERS 

Many worlds bear the 
scars of heavy, sustained 
bombardment. 

INFANTRY units that are entirely 
within a crater receive the benefit 
of cover. 

Models are slowed when charging 
across craters. If, when a unit 
charges, one or more of its models 
have to move across a crater, you 
must subtract 2" from the unit’s 
charge distance. 



BARRICADES 

Makeshift barricades make 
excellent defensive positions. 

INFANTRY units within 1" of a 
barricade, and behind it from the 
point of view of the firing unit, 
receive the benefit of cover. In 
addition, enemy units can Fight 
across a barricade, even though the 
physical distance is sometimes more 
than 1". When resolving Fights 
between units on opposite sides of 
a barricade, units can be chosen to 
Fight and can make their attacks if 
the enemy is within 2" instead of the 
normal 1". 




OBSTACLES 

The advance of many armies has 
been thwarted by obstacles. 


There are two kinds of obstacles: 
tank traps, which are obstacles to 
VEHICLES and MONSTERS, and 
tanglewire, which is an obstacle 
to everything else. Units are 
slowed when they attempt to move 
over obstacles. If, when a unit 
Advances or charges, one or more 
of its models have to move over 
an obstacle, you must halve the 
unit’s Advance or charge distance, 
as appropriate (rounding up). 
TITANIC models are not slowed 
by obstacles. 





*;' '' 


A COWARD ALWAYS SEEKS COMPROMISE. 



































THOUGHT FOR THE DAY: A GOOD DEATH EARNS THE EMPEROR’S BLESSING. 


M 




IMPERIAL STATUARY 

The heroes of the Imperium 
are immortalised in stone 
effigies. 

Units within 3" of Imperial Statuary 
that are at least 25% obscured by it, 
from the point of view of the firing 
unit, receive the benefit of cover. 

In addition, IMPERIUM units 
within 3" of Imperial Statuary add 1 
to their Leadership. 


FUEL PIPES 

Promethium and other 
explosive fuels are pumped 
across many worlds in 
armoured pipes. 

Fuel pipes follow all the 
rules for barricades, with the 
following addition: 

Roll a dice each time you make a 
saving throw of 7+ (usually a roll 
of 6, plus 1 for being in cover) for a 
model within 1" of a fuel pipe in the 
Shooting phase. On a 1, that shot 
has ruptured the pipe and caused 
a small explosion; the model’s unit 
suffers a mortal wound. 


BATTLESCAPE 

The smoking hulls of tanks and 
the blasted remains of trees 
speak of the presence of mines 
or other, more dangerous, traps. 

Battlescapes follow all the rules for 
woods, with the following addition: 


Roll a dice each time a model 
Advances or charges across a 
battlescape; on a roll of 1, that 
model has triggered a mine and its 
unit suffers a mortal wound. Models 
that can FLY can still trigger 
mines, but only if they charge 
across battlescape. 



























*T 


> 





HILLS 

Hills and elevated positions 
are often key tactical locations. 


Hills, whether free-standing or 
modelled into the battlefield itself, 
are raised areas that offer troops 
on top of them commanding 
views and fields of fire. Hills are 
always considered to be part of 
the battlefield rather than a terrain 
feature, and so models on top of 
them do not receive the benefits 
of cover. Some particularly large 
hills may block a model’s visibility 
to a target unit, however, so get a 
model’s-eye-view to see if this is 
ever the case. 


SCRATCH-BUILT TERRAIN 

Many hobbyists enjoy making their own terrain features from 
scratch (thus the term ‘scratch-built terrain’). If you wish to 
incorporate such terrain features into your battlefields, you and 
your opponent will need to devise your own rules for them. 
Don’t worry - this is very easy to do, especially if you use the 
rules presented on these pages as examples and inspiration. You 
could, for example, model your ruins on a scenic base, and agree 
that the base itself is simply an extension of the ruins and follows 
all the same rules. Perhaps you will create a river (presumably a 


fantastical one filled with lava or acid) with entirely new rules, 
agreeing that the only models that can cross it safely are those that 
can FLY. Some players prefer to say that certain terrain features, 
such as giant rock formations or imposing sealed buildings, are 
simply impassable to any models - creating obstacles on the 
battlefield for armies to manoeuvre around. You could make up 
some truly exotic rules for your terrain, such as creating a portal 
to the warp through which Daemons can materialise throughout 
your battle. Anything goes, so long as all players agree that it 
sounds like fun! 




? o o o 


SOB 


*> 


EVERY LONE SPIRIT DOUBTS HIS STRENGTH. 













































mm 


BATTLEZDHES 


The galaxy is ablaze with war, and millions of planets shake to the tread of mighty armies. Some are 
once-verdant paradises reduced to mud-churned ruins, others are hellishly overpopulated industrial 
hive worlds, while many are utterly inimical to life. 


So long as you and your opponent 
agree, any Warhammer 40,000 
battle can use Battlezone rules. They 
are optional, but Battlezone rules 
allow you to recreate battles fought 
in all manner of otherworldly 
environments, such as in the depths 
of hive cities, on asteroids hurtling 
through space, or even amidst 
the madness of worlds lost to the 


powers of Chaos. Each battlezone 
introduces new rules to your 
missions to represent the battlefield 
conditions of these varied worlds. 
They might change the core rules, 
for example by altering how psychic 
powers work. They can provide new 
rules for things like living terrain 
or tectonic activity, and may grant 
additional abilities to certain units. 


Agree which, if any, Battlezone rules 
will be used when you are setting up 
the battlefield, before deployment. 
Three battlezones are presented 
here to help make sure that every 
battle you fight is different. You 
can find more battlezones in other 
Warhammer 40,000 publications, 
and if you feel inspired, you can 
always make your own! 


BATTLEZONE: NIGHT FIGHT 


Battles in low to zero visibility are a test for any general at the best of times. When the battlefield is obscured by darkness, howling 
ash storms, unnatural celestial phenomena or psychic obfuscation, it means enemies can be nearly invisible, reinforcements can 
be lost, and your objectives can become uncertain. 


Low Visibility: When rolling to hit in the Shooting phase, apply the 
following penalties to your models depending on their distance from 
i the target. If the target unit is exactly 12", 24", or 36" away, use the 
lesser penalty from the table. 


msTANnF 

PFNAITV 

uiu ■ mlUL ■ LiinL i ■ 

0-12" 

No penalty 

12-24" 

Hit rolls have a -1 penalty 

24-36" 

Hit rolls have a -2 penalty 

36"+ 

Hit rolls have a -3 penalty 


Fog of War: If a unit arrives on the battlefield after the battle has 
begun (e.g. as the result of an ability on its datasheet or the Reserves 
rules), roll a dice the first time it does so. On a 1 or 2, it is delayed and 
cannot arrive this turn - it arrives in the following turn instead. 


STRATAGEMS 

In this battlezone, you and your opponent can both use Command 
Points (CPs) to use the following Stratagem: 


Mysterious Objectives: If you are playing a mission with objective 
markers, any unit that moves within 3" of an objective marker, or is 
within 3" of an objective marker at the start of the first turn, must 
identify it. To do so, roll a dice and consult the following table. Each 
objective marker is only identified once. 


DG RESULT 

1 Sabotaged!: The unit that identified this objective marker 
takes D3 mortal wounds. 


2 Nothing of Note: This has no additional effect. 

Grav-wave Generator: If you control this objective marker, 

3 any unit attempting to charge a friendly unit within 3" of this 
objective subtracts 2 from its charge move. 

Targeting Relay: If you control this objective marker, 

4 friendly units within 3" of this objective re-roll hit rolls of 1 
when shooting. 


4 LIGHT ’EM UP 

J Stratagem 

Select an enemy unit. For the duration of your turn, 
your units can shoot at that unit without penalties from 
Low Visibility. 


Scatterfield: If you control this objective marker, friendly 
units within 3" of this objective re-roll saving throw rolls of 1. 

Fire Support: If you control this objective marker, roll a dice 
6 at the end of your Shooting phase. On a roll of 5+, choose an 
enemy unit within 36". That unit suffers D3 mortal wounds. 




COMPROMISE IS AKIN TO TREACHERY. 























BATTLEZONE: FIRE AND FURY 


The armies clash under a burning sky - far above the conflict, a cataclysmic battle is taking place in orbit, and the casualties of 
that war descend in burning fragments to bombard the armies on the cracked earth. It is insanity to fight in these conditions, but 
you will not be found wanting! 


Burning Skies: Units that can Fly must roll a dice each time they 
move in the Movement phase (roll after they have completed their 
move). On a roll of 1, they suffer D3 mortal wounds. 


WARLORD TRAIT 

In this mission, your Warlord can choose the following Warlord Trait 
in place of any other: 


The Earth Cracks: All Move characteristics are halved for units that 
begin their turn with any models entirely within a terrain feature, and 
a unit that charges through such terrain must roll a dice. On a roll of 
1, it suffers D3 mortal wounds. Units that can Fly are not affected. 

Meteoric Debris: In each of your Shooting phases, place three dice 
numbered 1, 2 and 3 anywhere on the battlefield, at least 12" apart. 


Insane Bravado: This Warlord and any friendly units within 8" of 
them do not have to take Morale tests. 


STRATAGEMS 

In this battlezone, you and your opponent can both use Command 
Points (CPs) to use the following Stratagem: 



A Fate Worse Than Death: The psyker suffers 6 mortal wounds. If they are slain 
by this, your opponent may place a Chaos Spawn model, under their control, 
where the psyker was standing (or as close as possible). 


Overload: The psyker suffers D3 mortal wounds. If they are slain by this, each 
unit within 6" suffers D3 mortal wounds. 


A Door Closes: The psyker immediately forgets the psychic power that they were 
manifesting - they cannot manifest this power for the rest of the battle. 


Timeslip: The psyker may immediately attempt to manifest an extra psychic 
power in this phase (even one they have already manifested). 


Possession: Roll 2D6. If the total is greater than the psyker’s Leadership 
characteristic, they are possessed and controlled by your opponent for the rest of 
the battle. 


Transformation: Until your next Psychic phase, the psyker has a Strength 
characteristic of 10 and an invulnerable save of 2+. 


You then roll another dice; if the result matches the number of one of 
the dice, a flaming chunk of debris crashes into the battlefield at the 
corresponding dice’s location and every unit within 6" of it suffers D3 
mortal wounds. If the result doesn’t match any placed dice, the debris 
has landed elsewhere on the planet this time. 


_) Stratagem 

In your Shooting phase, you may place six dice for Meteoric 
Debris, rather than 3. The dice should be numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 
5 and 6. 


On countless worlds, psykers unaware of the terrible danger are tapping into powers they cannot control. In extreme cases, a 
psyker is transformed into a ghastly conduit for the warp, infesting their planet with daemonic corruption while amplifying the 
psychic potential of all who fight there. 


The Warp Overflows: PSYKERS add 2 to their 
Psychic and Deny the Witch tests. 


Psychic Amplification: PSYKERS can attempt 
to manifest one extra psychic power in their 
psychic phase, and the range of all psychic 
powers (where they have a range) is doubled. 


Mortal Peril: If you roll any double for a 
Psychic test, including a double 1 or double 6, 
the PSYKER suffers Terrors of the Warp (after 
resolving the psychic power, if it is successfully 
manifested). This counts as suffering Perils of the 
Warm but instead of the usual rules, roll on the 
following table: 
















The defender constructs their 
garrison - mighty bastions and 
heavy emplacements bristling 
with enough firepower to cut 
down any invaders that dare 
set foot on the planet. 


The attacker launches deadly 
firestorms from orbit before 
their forces drop directly into 
the heart of the fight to wrest 
the planet from the defender. 


PLANETSTRIKE 


The Planetstrike expansion allows your armies to battle to the death in a devastating planetary assault. In 
Planetstrike, players take specific roles - one is the attacker, attempting to wrest control of a planet, and 
the other is the defender, who will do everything to hold it. 


Planetary invasions are swift and 
terrible affairs, characterised by 
deafening noise, earth-shattering 
explosions and the stench of 
death. Thousands of battle-hungry 
warriors plunge downwards upon 
trails of flame and vapour like 
vengeful angels, pouring from 
the drop-craft and low-orbiting 
spaceships that darken the skies 
above. Megatonnes of ordnance 
hammer down around these 
airborne warriors, the detonations 
so devastating that the skies 
themselves seem afire. Attack craft 
roar across the sky through lattices 
of ruby-red las-fire and rocket 
contrails, strafing any soldier who 


dares stray into the open before 
screaming off through the flak 
to the next war zone. Pillars of 
ghostly light probe the skies, their 
colonnades all but transforming 
the battlefield into some vast and 
surreal shrine to the gods of war. 
The touch of these lights is certain 
death to any invader caught in their 
beams, and red-hot debris rains 
from the skies as batteries of anti¬ 
aircraft guns take their toll. Gigantic 
landers plummet from the heavens, 
shaking the ground with their 
impact before disgorging yet more 
warriors into the merciless meat 
grinder of a planetary assault. 


Below the chaotic skies lies a 
war-torn landscape chewed up 
and spat out by the incessant 
bombardments that precede the 
invasion. The devastated mudscape 
is punctuated only by the ruined 
shells of once-proud buildings and 


A SMALL MIND IS EASILY FILLED WITH FAITH. 

































& 


by inviolable strongholds that jut 
like tombstones from the tortured 
earth. The comparison is apt, for the 
doomed soldiers who defend these 
bastions from the storm of violence 
that threatens to consume them will 
emerge as corpses or not at all. 


It is within this nightmarish and 
lethal crucible of battle that true 
heroes are forged into warriors of 
iron will and exceptional might who 
march grim-faced through barrages 
of shrapnel and fire without pause. 

It is these heroes who determine 
the fate of the planet, these heroes 
who defy the enemy to strike them 
down and tear the prize from their 
grip. Only the brave or the insane 
can hope to prosper. Empires have 
ever been built on the deeds of such 
dauntless individuals, and by their 
deeds thev mav also fall. 


PLANETARY ASSAULT 

Planetstrike is truly a war on all 
fronts, in which the enemy can 
appear at any time, from anywhere 
- especially from above! Will 
you play the Defender, setting 
up formidable fortifications and 
giving everything you’ve got to 
repel the invaders? Or will you play 
the Attacker, raining hellfire and 
damnation upon the foe before 
sending an army of your best troops 
to claim the smoking remains of 
their strongholds? Whether you 
choose to tear the planet from your 
opponent’s grasp or annihilate the 
invaders raining from the skies, 
your actions can determine the fate 
of an entire world. 











r 




mmmi 




Planetstrike missions use the 
following additional rules: 

FIRESTORM ATTACK 

The planetary invasion is preceded 
by a fierce firestorm. 

The Attacker makes Firestorm 
Attacks at the start of the first battle 
round, but before the first turn 
begins; each mission will specify 
how many are made. The Attacker 
first places six dice numbered 
1 through 6 on the battlefield, 
anywhere at least 9" apart. For 
each Firestorm Attack, roll one 
dice: every unit within 3" of the 
corresponding dice’s location suffers 
D6 mortal wounds. INFANTRY 
units hit by a Firestorm Attack can 
choose to go to ground before the 
damage is rolled; if they do, they 
only suffer D3 mortal wounds, but 
cannot do anything during their 
first turn. 


PLANETARY ASSAULT 

The attacker’s forces rain from the 
skies to assault the defenders. 

In Planetstrike missions, the 
Attacker’s units are not set up on 
the battlefield during deployment 
and instead start the game in 
Reserve. INFANTRY units and 
units that can FLY start the game 
in orbit, whilst other units start the 
game in a landing zone, just off one 
edge of the battlefield. 

Roll a dice for each of your units 
still in Reserve at the end of each 
of your Movement phases (this is 
called a Reserve roll) - on a 3+ that 
unit arrives from Reserve. Note 
that if a unit placed in Reserve is 
embarked within a TRANSPORT, 
they will arrive when their 
transport does, not separately (if 
rolling, make a single roll for the 
transport and its embarked units). 

If the unit arrived from orbit, 
place it anywhere on the battlefield 
more than 6" from any enemy 
model. If the unit arrived from a 


landing zone, place it within 6" of 
the battlefield edge chosen as the 
Attacker’s landing zone. 


PLANETSTRIKE DEFENCES 

The Defender can use the following 
rules for defences in Planetstrike: 

BASTIONS 

These shelter the Defender’s forces 
as they repel invading armies. 

Bastions cannot move for any 
reason, nor can they Fight. Enemy 
models automatically hit them in 
a Fight - do not make hit rolls. 

Each Bastion has a Toughness of 
10, a Save of 3+, 20 Wounds, and 
is removed once it has lost all its 
wounds. Each has a Ballistic Skill of 
5+ and is equipped with four heavy 
bolters (see right). 

The Defender’s INFANTRY units 
can garrison a Bastion, moving in 
and out of it in the same manner as 
a unit embarking or disembarking 
from a TRANSPORT. Up to 20 
models can garrison a Bastion at 
any one time. Garrisoning units 
cannot normally do anything or 
be affected in any way, with the 
exception that they can still shoot in 
your Shooting phase. If the Bastion 
is destroyed, each unit garrisoning 
it must disembark, but the Defender 
must then roll a dice for each model 
just set up on the battlefield; for 
each roll of 1, 2 or 3, a model that 
disembarked (Defender’s choice) is 
crushed by falling rubble and slain. 

DEFENCE EMPLACEMENTS 
Defence Emplacements are used 
to shoot down invading forces. 

Defence Emplacements cannot 
move for any reason, nor can 
they Fight. Enemy models 
automatically hit them in a Fight - 
do not make hit rolls. Each Defence 
Emplacement has a Toughness 
of 7, a Save of 4+, 3 Wounds 
and is removed once it loses all 
of its wounds. Each Defence 
Emplacement has a Ballistic Skill 
of 5+ and is armed with either an 


Icarus lascannon or a quad-gun (see 
below). Add 1 to the hit rolls when 
shooting one of these weapons at 
a unit that can FLY, or at a unit 
that arrived from orbit during the 
Attacker’s previous turn. Subtract 1 
when shooting at any other target. 


WEAPON PROFILES 

R TYPE 

s 

AP 

D 

Heavy bolter 36" Heavy 3 

5 

-i 

D6 

Quad-gun 48" Heavy 8 

7 

-i 

1 

Icarus IT , 

lascannon 96 Heav >' 1 

9 

-3 

1 



A SGDRGHED SKIES N 

_) Attacker Stratagem 

This Stratagem is used just before you 
resolve your Firestorm Attacks. You 
make D3 additional Firestorm Attacks. 

\ / 


jA RAPID DROP ASSADLT 

_ ) Attacker Stratagem 

This Stratagem is used before making 
any Reserve rolls at the start of your 
first turn. D3 units of your choice 
automatically arrive from Reserve. 

\ / 


A TARGETING JAMMERS N 

_ ) Defender Stratagem 

This Stratagem is used just before 
the Attacker resolves their Firestorm 
Attacks. You can move one of the 
Firestorm location dice up to 2D6" in 
any direction. 

\ / 


A FORTIFIED STRONGHOLD ^ 

_ ) Defender Stratagem 

This Stratagem is used before the 
Attacker resolves his Firestorm 
Attacks. Select a single Bastion. That 
Bastion has 25 Wounds instead of 20. 

\ A 





WISDOM IS THE BEGINNING OF FEAR. 




















PLANETSTRIKE 

PLANETFALL 

Invading forces orbit above, raining fire upon the foe, their landing parties inbound to take for themselves 
any fortresses still standing. The defender must weather the storm and repel the enemy, no matter the 
cost. The attacker must not rest until the world is theirs. 


THE ARMIES 

The players should first choose who is the Attacker and 
who is the Defender, then each selects a Battle-forged 
army. The Power Level of the Attackers army should be 
greater than that of the Defenders. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

The Defender creates the battlefield; they start by 
setting up any number of Fortifications (Bastions, 
Defence Emplacements, etc.). They then set up all other 
terrain on the battlefield however they choose. Once 
the Defender has created the battlefield, the Attacker 
chooses one battlefield edge to be their landing zone - 
this is where their non-orbital Reserves will arrive from. 

Next, the Defender places 6 objective markers. One 
objective marker maybe placed inside each Bastion. 
Any objective marker not placed in a Bastion must be 
placed anywhere on the battlefield so long as the centre 
of each is more than 6" from the centre of any other 
objective marker, any Bastion or any battlefield edge. If 
a Bastion containing an objective marker is destroyed 
during the game, the Defender must place the objective 
marker where the building used to be. 

DEPLOYMENT 

The Defender now sets up all of their units, anywhere 
on the battlefield. The Attacker’s units do not start the 
game on the battlefield, but use the Planetary Assault 
rules (pg 256). 


FIRESTORM ATTACK 

The Attacker rolls a D3 and adds 1 to the result for each 
Bastion that is on the battlefield. The total is the number 
of Firestorm Attacks that the Attacker makes. 

FIRST TURN 

The Attacker has the first turn. 

BATTLE LENGTH 

The game lasts for 6 battle rounds. 

VICTORY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has scored the 
most victory points is the winner. If both players have 
the same number of victory points, the game is a draw. 
Victory points are achieved for the following: 

Storm and Defend: At the end of the game, each 
objective marker is worth 3 victory points to the player 
who controls it. A player controls an objective marker if 
they have more models within 3" of the centre of it than 
their opponent does. If an objective marker is within a 
Bastion, count all the models within 3" of the building 
and all the models garrisoning it when determining who 
controls the objective marker. 

Slay the Warlord: If the enemy Warlord has been slain 
during the battle, you score 1 victory point. 



The battlefield shown here is 
an example of a classic set¬ 
up for a game of Planetstrike. 
The Defender has chosen to 
place his Fortifications in 
the centre of the battlefield 
so that, whichever direction 
the Attacker chooses to come 
from, they will be ready. 



DESPAIR IS A SIGN OF WEAKNESS. 








* 



In the nightmare of the far future, armies battle one another to annihilation amid the shattered ruins of 
vast corpse-strewn cities. The Cities of Death expansion allows both players to recreate the brutal, close- 
confines nature of urban warfare. 


In a galaxy of war, cities make 
for the bloodiest of battlefields. 
Bombed from orbit, the blasted 
city ruins are overrun by hordes of 
slavering aliens or crushed to rubble 
beneath the footfalls of titanic 
war machines. Warriors engage 
in bitter close-quarters battles 
whilst mighty battle tanks smash 
through crumbling buildings, 
grinding bricks and bodies both 
beneath their treads. Victory will 
only be won by an army ruthless 
and determined enough to drive 
its enemy from every collapsed 


building, root out and eradicate 
every firebase, and level every 
stronghold to deny even a single 
sniper a vantage point. Every 
building, staircase and hallway 
becomes a battleground fought over 
by dozens of warriors, no quarter 
given until the floor is carpeted 
with the bodies of the dead and the 
walls are blasted rubble. 

Battle lines are drawn from one 
street corner to another and soldiers 
dart across shell-pocked roads. 

No man’s land is watched over by 


In these cramped confines, warriors 
fight on long after their ammunition 
is spent. With the butts of rifles and 
scavenged weapons, they bludgeon 
their foes to death, stabbing and 
hacking in a frenzy to survive. In 
such battles, combatants are at their 
most base and low, and no tactic is 
too desperate, no rule unbreakable 
to achieve victory. City fighting 
takes all the horrors of war and 
magnifies them. Territory is more 
important, lives are cheaper, and 
survival is all but impossible. 






































m 




emmgBa 


; V. 


Ruined buildings conceal 
warriors who use their 
elevated position to gain an 
advantage over their foes, 
granting them a superior 
field of fire and making it 
harder for the enemy to find 
effective cover. Assault forces 
are sent forwards to flush out 
all such pockets of resistance. 
Darting from cover to cover, 
they launch desperate attacks 
with grenades and flamers to 
reduce the foe to blasted and 
charred corpses. 


In Cities of Death, key 
locations are seized and 
pressed into service as 
makeshift bunkers, emergency 
field hospitals or command 
posts by generals desperate for 
any advantage. Any buildings 
that cannot be held are instead 
rigged with all manner of 
deadly traps. 


Sometimes, a few loyal or 
well-trained soldiers must be 
counted on to turn the tide of 
a city battle. Few in number, 
such warriors cannot hope to 
hold ground for long periods 
against large numbers of 
enemies and must therefore 
engage in daring hit-and-run 
tactics, pinpoint strikes under 
cover of darkness, and even 
daring raids launched from 
labyrinthine sewer networks. 


v Ji i • n- - i ■gvr^mmr ■ 


mm 


ki 




t^ r i mi 

41L I; v 


^ i 




Even the most fast-moving armies can be 
forced to abandon their usual tactics as 
they become bogged down in blood-soaked 
building-to-building warfare. 




259 




-i* 


EVEN A MAN WHO HAS NOTHING CAN STILL OFFER HIS LIFE. 


























































^ MEDICAE FACILITY 

J Stratagem 

This Stratagem is used after both sides have deployed, but 
before the first battle round begins. Nominate a single 
city ruin to house the Medicae Facility. Roll a dice each 
time a model loses a wound whilst occupying that city 
ruin; on a 6, the model has been healed by the medicae 
equipment and does not lose that wound. 


^ BDDBY TRAPS 

Stratagem 

This Stratagem is used after both sides have deployed, but 
before the first battle round begins. Secretly nominate 
a single city ruin to house the Booby Traps and write 
this down - this cannot be a city ruin that is currently 
occupied by any models. The first time any model, moves 
into the city ruin, they trigger the Booby Traps and suffer 
D3 mortal wounds (D6 if they were Advancing). 


DEATH IN THE STREETS 

J Stratagem 

This Stratagem can be used when a unit with a Height 
Advantage shoots an enemy unit that is entirely at street 
level and not in cover. You can re-roll all failed hit and 
wound rolls when resolving shots at that enemy unit. 


In Cities of Death battles, re-roll all failed wound rolls 
made when a model throws a Grenade at a unit on or 
in ruins. Furthermore, if a Grenade makes a random 
number of attacks, that Grenade always makes the 
maximum number of attacks instead (e.g. a Grenade D6 
profile would instead be treated as a Grenade 6 profile 
when thrown at a unit occupying ruins). 


CITIES OF DEATH STRATAGEMS 

In Cities of Death games, players can use the following 
additional Stratagems: 


IQC 


^ SEWER RATS 

j Stratagem 

This Stratagem is used just before you set up an 
Infantry unit during deployment. Instead of setting 
up that unit on the battlefield, they are infiltrating 
the city’s sewer network. At the end of any of your 
Movement phases, you can set the unit up anywhere on 
the battlefield at street level that is more than 9" from any 
enemy model and not in a city ruin. 


HEIGHT ADVANTAGE 

In urban warfare, every soldier in a tall building is a 
sniper, raking fire onto those below. Combating foes 
with such a height advantage is nigh impossible. 


- 


A model gains a Height Advantage whilst occupying 
the upper levels of a city ruin and shooting at a unit 
that is either at street level or within a lower level of 
city ruins. To gain a Height Advantage, every model 
in the target unit must be on levels that are 3" or more 
below that of the firing model. If a model shoots with a 
Height Advantage, the target does not receive any of the 
benefits for being in cover. 


STREETS AND ROADS 

Forces can move quickly across streets and roads, but 
doing so often leaves them exposed to enemy fire. 

You can move a model an extra 2" if it spends its entire 
Movement phase on a street or road (move a model an 
extra 4" instead if the unit Advances). This has no effect 
on units that can FLY. 


Cities < 


o 


mmtm 


Cities of Death missions use the following 
additional rules: 


In the close confines or building-to-building warfare, 
grenades are especially effective. 


CITY RDINS 

Unless they can FLY, VEHICLES, MONSTERS and 
BIKES can only end their move on the ground floor of 
ruins. 

INFANTRY are assumed to be able to scale walls and 
traverse through windows, doors and portals readily. 
These models can therefore move through the floors and 
walls of a ruin without further impediment. 

INFANTRY units that are on or behind a ruin receive 
the benefit of cover. INFANTRY units that do not move 
in their Movement phase are better able to make use 
of available cover in Cities of Death. Until they next 
move, you add 2 to their saving throws instead of only 1 
against all shooting attacks. Other units only receive the 
benefit of cover if at least 50% of every model is actually 
obscured from the point of view of the shooting unit. 


FIRE IN THE HDLE 










CITIES DF DEATH 

FIRESWEEP 

Both sides are moving forwards to occupy as much of the city as possible, conducting a room-to-room, 
building-to-building and street-to-street advance. Each force must attempt to claim as many buildings as 
they can, clearing the enemy as they move. 


THE ARMIES 

Both players select a Battle-forged army. Neither army 
can include any Fortifications. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create the battlefield. Players must set up at least six city 
ruins, but should place more if they can. The streets and 
areas between the city ruins should be liberally littered 
with obstacles, barricades, wreckage and other detritus 
so that troops have some shelter as they dash from one 
building to another. 

After terrain has been set up, the players must place 
6 objective markers to denote the Critical city ruins 
they are attempting to claim (see Victory Conditions, 
opposite). The players should roll off and, starting with 
whoever rolled highest, alternate placing these objective 
markers until all 6 have been set up. The objective 
markers must each be located in a different city ruin. 

DEPLOYMENT 

The player who placed the sixth objective marker now 
picks one quarter of the battlefield, as shown on the map 
below, for their deployment zone, and their opponent 
uses the diagonally opposite quarter of the battlefield as 
their deployment zone. Next, players alternate deploying 
their units, one at a time, starting with the player who did 
not pick their deployment zone. A player’s models must 
be set up within their own deployment zone. Continue 
setting up units until both sides have set up their army. 


POWER LEVEL 

After both sides have deployed, determine each army’s 
Power Level by adding the Power Ratings of all its units; 
whichever player has the lowest is the Underdog. If both 
have the same Power Level, the player who assigned 
the deployment zones is the Underdog. If the difference 
between the Power Levels of the two armies is 10 to 19, 
the Underdog receives 1 bonus CP; if the difference is 20 
to 29, they receive 2 CPs and so on. 

FIRST TURN 

The player who completed setting up their army first 
can choose to take the first or second turn. 

BATTLE LENGTH 

The game lasts for 6 battle rounds. 

VICTORY CONDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player controlling the most 
Critical city ruins earns a major victory. If both players 
control the same number, the Underdog scores a minor 
victory. A player controls a Critical city ruin if they have 
more models on or in that ruin than their opponent. 



Player A’s Battlefield Edge 




Player B’s Battlefield Edge 


The battlefield shown here 
is an example of a classic 
set-up for a game of Cities 
of Death. The battlefield 
contains several city ruins 
through which infantry can 
fight and take cover, and 
exposed roads, across which 
the brave can attempt to 
cover ground. 



FROM A SINGLE SEED OF DOUBT CAN GROW A WORLD OF HERESY. 





262 


Nested within the grandest bastions 
are weapons of such terrible 
magnitude that they can annihilate 
the mightiest machines of war, or 
even cripple a battleship in low 


BRAVE MEN DO NOT QUESTION, THEY SIMPLY ACT. 


army s war ettort, and thus become the prime objectives ot any enemy 
attack. The aggressor will launch endless charges across no man’s land, 
attempting to tear down these edifices and slay those sheltering within. 


Across the galaxy, siege warfare is a way of life. In Stronghold Assault one player is the Attacker, throwing 
themselves against the walls of monolithic fortresses, and the other is the Defender, who will garrison 
every fortification, gun emplacement and blood-soaked trench to the last. 


The galaxy’s battlefields are 
punctuated with monolithic 
strongholds that reach towards 
the heavens, studded with enough 
weapon emplacements and firing 
ports to hold back entire armies. 
These fortifications are monuments 
to the unyielding nature of siege 
warfare. Many have endured 
centuries of unrelenting battle, 
and in their shadows, warriors 
beyond counting have been slain. 
Some have even withstood more 
than ten millennia of grinding war, 
sheltering troops as they unleash 
their own fury against the foe. 


orbit. These jutting fortresses do 
not stand alone in their endless 
vigil over the galaxy’s battlefields - 
defence lines and trench networks 
protect and connect the bunkers 
and weapon towers at their heart. 


However, even the most formidable 
series of fortifications are naught 
but walls and barricades without 
a garrison to defend them. Only 
when soldiers man battlements 
and operate weapon systems is 
a fortification’s true defensive 
potential realised. Even a 
single squad of warriors can be 


transformed into an unyielding foe 
when occupying a bunker, pouring 
down firepower upon their enemies 
with impunity, safe from all but the 
heaviest retaliation. It is no surprise, 
therefore, that commanders seek to 
control these unyielding bulwarks. 
Control of such assets can be the 
difference between victory and 
defeat. As such, they are never 
defended lightly, nor taken from the 
enemy without considerable losses. 


: m.; 

STRONGHOLD ASSAULT 


MBEBgqpcKr o MRU 






















// 

Many of the Imperium’s countless fortresses have 
succumbed to war over the millennia, torn down 
in grinding sieges to piles of rubble or blasted 
by artillery bombardments into shattered ruins. 
However, for every mighty fortification that has 
been razed to the ground, a dozen have endured 
to stand proud - armoured monuments that 
are testament to the stubborn power and brutal 
majesty of Mankind. 

% 


M 


f 

The armour and armaments of fortifications 
make them invaluable defensive assets. A fully 
garrisoned fortress can withstand both heavy 
bombardment and determined assault from a 
numerically superior foe, but should the walls fall, 
the defenders’ hopes of victory often fall with it. 





















V Strnno 


envM« 


v-m&m af 


% 


0 

I 




If/ 


i 


Stronghold Assault missions use 
the following additional rules: 


BIG GUNS NEVER TIRE 

The attacker has brought along 


their heaviest ordnance to level 
the defences of the foe. 


The Attacker s models can move 
and shoot Heavy weapons without 
incurring the -1 penalty to their 
hit rolls, but only when targeting a 
Bunker or a Fortress (see right). 


DEMOLITIONS 

The attacking troops are equipped 
with demolition tools and 
explosive charges to breach the 
enemy’s defences. 


Each time the Attacker makes 
a wound roll of 6+ for a model 
Fighting a Bunker or a Fortress, the 
structure suffers a mortal wound in 
addition to any other damage. 


STRONGHOLD DEFENCES 

The defenders await the onslaught 
of their enemy, secure in the 
protection offered by their 
fortifications and trenches. 


The Defender can use the following 
rules for their defences in games of 
Stronghold Assault: 


DEFENCE LINES 
Defence Lines are trenches or 
armoured shield sections that 
provide troops with shelter. 


INFANTRY models that are within 
1" of a Defence Line and behind 
it, from the point of view of the 
firing unit, receive the benefit of 
cover. In addition, these models can 
take cover at any point during the 
enemy turn - as soon as they do so, 
improve their Save by 2 until the 
start of the enemy’s next turn, but 
they can do nothing until then. 


In addition, enemy units can fight 
across a Defence Line, even though 
the physical distance is sometimes 


V 


more than 1". When resolving 
Fights against units on opposite 
sides of a Defence Line, units can 
be chosen to Fight if the enemy is 
within 2", instead of the normal 1". 
In order to attack an enemy unit on 
the opposite side of a Defence Line, 
an attacking model must either be 
within 2" of that unit, or within 
1" of another model from its own 
unit that is itself within 2" of that 
enemy unit. This represents the unit 
fighting in two ranks. 


BUNKERS AND FORTRESSES 
These fortifications are used to 
shelter the Defender’s forces as 
they repel invading armies. 


When the Defender creates their 
army, they can include as many 
Bunkers and Fortresses as they 
wish. Each is a single model that 
takes up a single Fortifications 
Battlefield Role slot in a 
Detachment. Bunkers have a Power 
Rating of 5, whilst Fortresses have a 
Power Rating of 15. 


Bunkers and Fortresses cannot 
move for any reason, nor can they 
Fight. Enemy models automatically 
hit them in a Fight - do not make 
hit rolls. Each Bunker and Fortress 
has a Toughness of 10 and a Save of 
3+. A Bunker has 15 Wounds and a 
Fortress has 30 - either is removed 
once destroyed. A Fortress has a 
Ballistic Skill of 5+ and is equipped 
with two Icarus lascannons, a 
missile silo and up to four heavy 
bolters (see right). 


264 


FORTUNE FAVOURS THE FAITHFUL. 




roll a dice for each model just set 
up on the battlefield; for each roll of 
1, 2 or 3, a model that disembarked 
(controlling player’s choice) is slain. 


CAPTURED FORTRESS 

An undefended stronghold is an 
asset for the attacker to capture 
and turn upon the foe. 



At the start of most Stronghold 
Assault missions, Bunkers and 
Fortresses are under the control 
of the Defender. However, 
the Attacker can garrison any 
unoccupied building using the same 
rules. If they do so, the building 
immediately comes under their 
control. Buildings can potentially 
exchange hands several times over 
the course of the battle. 


WEAPON PROFILES 

R TYPE 

s 

flP 

D 

Heavy bolter 36" Heavy 3 

5 

-1 

i 

Icarus TT t 

lascannon 96 Heav > r 1 

9 

-3 

D6 

Missile silo* 96" 

4 

0 

1 

*The missile silo cannot shoot enemy 
units that are within 18". 


STRONGHOLD ASSAULT 
STRATAGEMS 


In Stronghold Assault games, players can 
use the following additional Stratagems, 
depending on whether they are the Attacker 
or the Defender: 


INFANTRY units can garrison a 
Bunker or a Fortress, moving in 
and out of it in the same manner as 
a unit embarking or disembarking 
from a TRANSPORT. Up to 20 
models can garrison a Bunker at 
any one time, and up to 40 can 
garrison a Fortress. Garrisoned 
units cannot normally do anything 
or be affected in any way with the 
exception that they can still shoot in 
your Shooting phase. If the Bunker 
or Fortress is destroyed, each unit 
garrisoning it must disembark, but 
the controlling player must then 


^ SAPPERS 

_ ) Attacker Stratagem 

This Stratagem is used just before 
one of your units Fights a Bunker or 
Fortress. You can add 1 to all wound 
rolls made for that unit that target a 
Bunker or Fortress this Fight phase. 


jD ESCAPE HATCH 

_ ) Defender Stratagem 

This Stratagem is used when one 
of your Bunkers or Fortresses is 
destroyed. Garrisoning models are 
only slain on a roll of 1, instead of a 
roll of 1, 2 or 3. 

\ 


-Mb, 


























STRONGHOLD ASSAOLT 

BUNKER ASSAULT 

One side has withdrawn behind the shelter of unyielding bunkers, holding the advancing foe at arm’s 
reach whilst calling down withering salvoes of artillery strikes. The attacker must destroy or overwhelm 
the bunkers as quickly as possible, before the barrages pound them into oblivion. 


THE ARMIES 

The players should first choose who is the Attacker and 
who is the Defender, then each selects a Battle-forged 
army. The Power Level of the Attackers army should be 
greater than that of the Defender’s. The Defender must 
include at least one Fortification Network Detachment 
containing between 1 and 3 Bunkers and/or Fortresses, 
in any combination. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

The Defender creates a battlefield. They start by first 
setting up their Bunkers and Fortresses within their 
deployment zone. They then set up as many Defence 
Lines as they like. Then set up other terrain on the 
battlefield - we suggest a few ruins or craters. 

DEPLOYMENT 

After the battlefield has been created, the Defender 
sets up their army within their deployment zone. The 
Attacker then sets up their army within their own 
deployment zone. 

TARGETING AUGER 

After both sides have deployed, the Defender selects one 
of their Bunkers or Fortresses to house the Targeting 
Auger. Whilst this Fortification is garrisoned by one of 
the Defender’s units, they can direct an artillery strike 
at the start of each of their Shooting phases. To do so, 
place a marker (such as a dice or a coin) anywhere 


on the battlefield. Your opponent can then move the 
marker D6" in any direction. After this is done, roll a 
dice for each unit (friend or foe) within 3" of the marker 
- on a 3+, that unit suffers D3 mortal wounds. 

FIRST TDRN 

The Attacker has the first turn. 

BATTLE LENGTH 

The game lasts for 6 battle rounds. 

VICTORY GDNDITIONS 

At the end of the game, the player who has scored the 
most victory points is the winner. If both players have 
the same number of victory points, the game is a draw. 
Victory points are achieved for the following: 

No Quarter Given: Each player scores 1 victory point 
for each enemy unit that is destroyed. 

Rubble and Ruin: The Attacker scores 3 victory 
points for each Bunker they destroy, and for each 
Bunker they have captured and still hold at the end of 
the game. The Defender scores 3 victory points for every 
other Bunker still on the battlefield at the end of the 
game. Each Fortress is instead worth 6 victory points. 


Attacker’s Battlefield Edge 



Attacker’s Deployment Zone 


Defender’s Battlefield Edge 

r 


The battlefield shown here is an 
example of a classic set-up for a 
game of Stronghold Assault. 

When setting up the table, any 
Fortifications that are purchased 
as part of an army list must 
be placed wholly within their 
controlling players table half 



BLESSED IS THE MIND TOO SMALL FOR DOUBT. 










- 

R 


Fire fills the skies as squadron after squadron of aircraft scream into battle. The Death from the Skies 
expansion allows players to recreate battles where squadrons of aircraft are critical to success and where 
skilled aces engage in fast-paced dogfights for dominance of the skies. 



The clouds burn as squadrons of 
aircraft tear across the skies and 
engage in deadly combat. Even 
as mighty armies clash upon 
war-torn battlefields, so the skies 
above play host to battles of their 
own. Swift fighter wings dogfight 
furiously with one another, and 
ace pilots prey upon their victims 
with sublime skill. Squadrons of 
bombers thunder in through skies 
alive with flak, dropping ordnance 
into the swirling battle below. 
Meanwhile, attack craft punch 
through enemy fighter screens to 
strafe the foe and deliver warriors 
to the heart of battle. Everywhere, 
wise commanders seek to dominate 
the air, knowing that this will secure 
victory on the ground. 


out of the skies. As their land- 
bound comrades fight and die 
down below, these courageous 
pilots engage in adrenaline-charged 
aerial duels where a split second’s 
hesitation means death. 

All the while, flights of bombers 
thunder into cauldrons of fire 
to hammer shield generators, 
dark idols and super-heavy war 
engines with lethal ordnance. The 
destruction wrought by squadrons 
of heavy bombers obliterates such 
ground targets wholesale. 


Wings of lightning-fast jet fighters 
hurtle through acid squalls or weave 
between the towers of megalithic 
cityscapes to blow enemy aircraft 


Even as this carnage is unleashed, 
aerial transports and gunships 
swoop from on high. Strafing runs 
shred infantry formations, gunning 
down bestial monsters and turning 
enemy tanks into fireballs, before 
disgorging hordes of battle-ready 
killers from their armoured holds. 

Whether forging through sentient 
rust-cyclones or engaging winged 
Daemons in the starlit void of 
space, squadrons of aircraft rule 
the war-torn heavens. 


Hurtling into battle with 
guns spitting death, wings of 
combat aircraft fight their own 
war high above the blood- 
soaked battlefield. 



























The first moments of a 
dogfight are crucial; pilots 
jockey for position, attempting 
to tail their quarry and line up 
for the kill shot. It is an aerial 
dance in which the slightest 
mistake can be fatal. 


An aircraft may be forced to 
bug out, temporally leaving 
combat airspace, usually to 
shake off enemy fighters. 
Though it will avoid its own 
imminent destruction, its 
absence will be sorely felt on 
the battlefield, leaving its allies 
on the ground unprotected 
and at the mercy of deadly 
strafing fire and bombing 
runs until it can return, guns 
blazing, to wreak vengeance. 































I , 11 ll 




Death from the Skies missions use the following 
additional rules: 


FLYERS 

All Flyers - that is, units specifically with the Flyer 
Battlefield Role - can make use of the expanded Flyer 
rules below. For many of these rules, the Flyers’ arcs will 
be important. Flyers have four 90° arcs: one front, one 
rear and two side arcs. 


DOGFIGHT PHASE 

Aircraft duel to the death in the burning skies above. 

In Death from the Skies missions, Flyers can only target 
enemy Flyers with shooting attacks during the Dogfight 
phase. This is an extra phase introduced in each player’s 
turn between their Movement and Psychic phases. 

In the Dogfight phase, starting with the player whose 
turn it is, players alternate selecting one of their Flyers 
and then selecting an enemy Flyer as the target of their 
Dogfight. Your Flyer can immediately shoot with any 
of its weapons as if it were the Shooting phase. It can 
only shoot at the targeted Flyer, however, and cannot 
use Bombs and similar ordnance during the Dogfight 
phase. Furthermore, only those weapons that are in arc 
can shoot at the Flyer, such is the twisting and turning 
nature of Dogfights. Draw an imaginary line between 
the centre of your Flyer to the centre of the target Flyer 
to determine which of your weapons can be fired at that 
target; turret weapons can shoot in any direction, tail- 
mounted weapons can only shoot targets in the Flyer’s 
rear arc and all other weapons can only shoot targets in 
the Flyer’s front arc. 

You will receive an additional modifier to your hit rolls 
depending on which of the target Flyer’s arcs is facing 
the shooter, as follows: 

• Rear (Tailing): +2 to all hit rolls. 

• Front (Head-on Pass): +1 to all hit rolls. 

• Side (Deflection Shot): No modifier. 

Once your Flyer has resolved its shots, your opponent 
then chooses one of their Flyers to Dogfight, until all the 
Flyers that the players wish to Dogfight have done so. 


Then move onto the Psychic phase as normal. 

Flyers that shoot in the Dogfight phase can still shoot in 
their Shooting phase as normal, but remember that they 
can only target enemy Flyers in the Dogfight phase, so 
will need to shoot at ground-based targets instead. 


LEAVING COMBAT AIRSPACE 

Sometimes pilots are forced to overshoot their 
primary target and come around for another pass. 

In an exception to the Minimum Move section of the 
core rules, Flyers can move off the edge of the battlefield 
- indeed, because of minimum moves, some may 
be forced to do so. These Flyers are said to have Left 
Combat Airspace. They can attempt to return to combat 
airspace at the end of their next Movement phase. To do 
so, roll a dice; on a 1 or 2, it has been delayed and does 
not arrive this turn, but you can roll again in your next 
turn. On a 3+, that Flyer arrives and is set up on the 
board as follows. Place the Flyer touching any battlefield 
edge facing any direction and move it directly forwards 
up to 6" (it cannot turn again). Flyers are always 
assumed to have moved their maximum distance when 
arriving on the battlefield in this manner. 

Any Flyer that has Left Combat Airspace and has not 
re-entered it by the end of the game counts as destroyed 
for the purposes of any victory conditions. 


DEATH FROM THE SKIES STRATAGEMS 

In Death from the Skies games, players can use the following 
additional Stratagems: 


I EVASIVE r 1NDEUVRES 

J Stratagem 

This Stratagem is used when one of your Flyers is 
targeted by an enemy Flyer in a Dogfight. You can re-roll 
all failed saving throws made for that Flyer this phase, but 
you must subtract 1 from any hit rolls made for it until 
the end of the current turn. 


J REFUEL, REARM, REPAIR 

Stratagem 

This Stratagem is used as soon as one of your Flyers 
Leaves Combat Airspace. If you spend 1 CP, the aircraft 
automatically re-enters combat airspace at the end of 
your next Movement phase - there is no need to roll a 
dice. If you spend 2 CPs, the aircraft also regains any 
weapons that are described as only being able to be used 
a limited number of times during a battle (bombs, etc.). If 
you spend 3 CPs, the aircraft also regains D3 wounds. 

\ / 















DEATH FROM THE SKIES 

TACTICAL STRIKE 


A window of opportunity has arisen for your bombers and ground-attack craft to strike at strategically 
vital ground targets. The attacker must strike fast, for the defender is even now scrambling fighters to 
intercept the attacking aircraft. 


THE ARMIES 

The players should first choose who is the Attacker and 
who is the Defender, then each selects a Battle-forged 
army. Both armies must include at least one Air Wing 
Detachment. We recommend that the Defender’s army 
include a few Fortifications as well. The Power Level 
of the Attacker’s army should be greater than that of 
the Defender’s. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create a battlefield using the deployment map below 
that is large enough to accommodate both armies. Next, 
set up terrain. The Defender’s deployment zone should 
contain several defensible pieces of terrain, such as 
ruins, in which they can take shelter from the air raids. 

The Defender then sets up 5 objective markers to 
denote the Attacker’s Ground Objectives. These can be 
placed anywhere that is not in terrain, or anywhere on 
a Fortification with Wounds, but each must be at least 
6" away from any other (measure to the centre of the 
objective marker). 

DEPLOYMENT 

The Defender deploys their army within their 
deployment zone. The Attacker then sets up their army 
within their own deployment zone. 


GROUND OBJECTIVE 

The Attacker must target and destroy the Ground 
Objectives. If a marker is placed on a Fortification, that 
Ground Objective is destroyed when the Fortification is. 
Markers that are not on terrain represent underground 
targets; these have a Toughness of 6, a Save of 4+ and 
10 Wounds (in a Fight, Ground Objectives are hit 
automatically - no hit dice is rolled). 

BUNKER BUSTERS 

The Attacker adds 1 to all hit and wound rolls made for 
their Flyers when targeting Ground Objectives. 

FIRST TDRN 

The Attacker has the first turn. 

BATTLE LENGTH 

The game lasts for 6 battle rounds. 

VICTORY CONDITIONS 

If, at the end of the game, 4 or more Ground Objectives 
have been destroyed, the Attacker wins a major victory. 
If 2 or fewer have been destroyed, the Defender wins a 
major victory. If 3 have been destroyed, and the Power 
Level of the Attacker’s army is at least 10 greater than 
that of the Defender’s, the Defender wins a minor 
victory, otherwise the battle is a draw. 



Defender’s Battlefield Edge 


Defender’s Deployment Zone 


Attacker’s Deployment Zone 


Attacker’s Battlefield Edge 


THOUGHT FOR THE DAY: AN OPEN MIND IS LIKE A FORTRESS WITH ITS GATE UNBARRED AND UNGUARDED. 



ii.0 


^ ° 

{ MULTIPLAYER BATTLES 






i 


){t 

ft 


The rules for Warhammer 40,000 are written for battles fought between two players, each commanding 
an army. However, it is equally enjoyable to play multiplayer games between three or more players, each 
striving separately to defeat their opponents! 


In a multiplayer battle there can be 
as many sides as there are players! 
Each player must attempt to defeat 
all of their opponents, using any 
means at their disposal in order to 
achieve victory. It is very simple 
to play a multiplayer battle, and 
only requires a handful of minor 
modifications to the core rules, 
which are detailed below. 


MISSIONS 

Multiplayer battles are best fought 
using missions that are designed 
specifically for them, such as the 
multiplayer mission presented on 
the next page, called ‘Carnage’. 
However, it is easy to modify many 
two-player missions for use in 
multiplayer games by following 
these guidelines: 

THE ARMIES 

To play a multiplayer battle, you 
must have three or more players. 
Each player then chooses an army; 
the models belonging to all of 
the other players are treated as 
enemy models. 

BATTLE ROUNDS 

Each battle round is split into three 
or more turns - one for each player. 
Unless otherwise stated, at the start 
of each battle round, players roll off. 
The player who rolls highest decides 
who takes the first turn in that 
battle round. 

After the first player has finished 
their turn, the players who have 
not yet had a turn yet roll off. The 
player who rolls highest decides 
who will take the next turn in that 
battle round. 


After that player has finished their 
turn, the remaining players roll 
again to see who takes the next 
turn, and so on, until all of the 
players have had a turn. Then, the 
battle round is over and a new 
one begins. 

PSYCHIC PHASE 

Only one player is allowed to 
attempt to resist a successfully 
manifested psychic power - if 
several players wish to do so, then 
the player whose turn is taking 
place can choose which one gets to 
make the attempt. 

CHARGE PHASE 

After a player has moved all their 
charging models, the other players 
can attempt to perform Heroic 
Interventions in an order decided 
by the player whose turn it is. An 
enemy CHARACTER can only 
perform a Heroic Intervention if it 
is within 3" of a model controlled by 
the player whose turn it is. 

FIGHT PHASE 

Any unit that has models within 1" 
of an enemy unit can Fight in this 
phase. Models can be used to attack 
any enemy models, not just those 
belonging to the player whose turn 
is taking place. 

Units that charged this turn Fight 
first as normal. Then, the player 
whose turn it is chooses an order 
for all the players (including 
themselves) to select a unit to Fight 
with, before the next player chooses 
a unit. Continue going around in 
the same order until all eligible 
units that you want to Fight have 
done so. If one player completes all 
of their units’ Fights first, or they 
don’t have any units that can Fight, 
then the other players complete all 
of their remaining Fights, one unit 



© 

, 


after another, in the same order. No 
unit can Fight more than once in 
each Fight phase. 

MORALE PHASE 
In the Morale phase, all players 
must take Morale tests for units 
from their army that have had 
models slain during the turn. The 
player whose turn it is tests first, 
and they then decide the order in 
which the other players will take 
their Morale tests. 


MULTIPLAYER STRATAGEM 

In multiplayer missions, each player can 
use Command Points (CPs) to use the 
following Stratagem: 


SI BHIBE 

, ) Stratagem 

You can use this Stratagem at any time 
to give any number of your remaining 
CPs to another player to bargain 
for a temporary ceasefire, alliance, 
betrayal, etc. 


HINTS & TIPS 

In a battle fought between three 
or more opponents, each general 
taking part must learn to be 
cunning! You must be able to set 
your foes against each other, form 
temporary alliances, and know 
when to stab someone in the back 
before they do the same thing to 
you. In other words, a successful 
general needs to be willing to use 
underhand ploys and tactics in 
order to win a battle! 


V 



A WEAPON CANNOT SUBSTITUTE FOR ZEAL. 

















MULTIPLAYER BATTLE 

CARNAGE 

Several armies converge on the same battlefield, each determined to capture it for themselves. Make 
whatever truces you must and betray whomever you wish, but be careful - when the battle is over, there 
can be only one victor. 


THE ARMIES 

In order to play this mission, you will need three or four 
players. Each must select a Battle-forged army. 

THE BATTLEFIELD 

Create a battlefield and set up terrain; as it will need to 
accommodate up to four armies, you might need to use 
a slightly larger battlefield than normal. Then, place a 
single objective marker in the centre of the battlefield. 

DEPLOYMENT 

The battlefield is divided into quarters. The players roll 
off; the winner chooses one of the quarters to be their 
deployment zone. Then, the remaining players roll off. 
The winner selects one of the other quarters to be their 
deployment zone, and so on, until all the players have a 
deployment zone. 

The players then alternate deploying their units, one 
at a time, starting with the player who selected their 
deployment zone first, then the player who selected 
their deployment zone second, and so on. Models must 
be set up in their own deployment zone, more than 9" 
from the centre of the battlefield. Continue setting up 
units until all sides have set up their armies. 

POWER LEVEL AND RANKING 

After all sides have deployed, determine each army’s 
Power Level by adding together the Power Ratings of all 
the units set up in that army. Then rank the armies from 
highest Power Level to lowest. If two have the same 


Power Level, the players should roll off. Whoever wins 
has the higher rank. 

FIRST TDRN 

The player with the lowest rank chooses who has the 
first turn during the first battle round. The player with 
the second lowest rank chooses who has the second turn 
during the first battle round, and so on. 

BATTLE LENGTH 

The game lasts for 5 battle rounds. 

VICTORY CONDITIONS 

If one player’s army has slain all of its foes, they win a 
major victory. Otherwise, the player who has the most 
victory points wins a major victory. If two or more 
players are tied for the highest number of victory points, 
the one with the lowest rank wins a minor victory. 
Victory points are achieved for the following: 

Dominate the Field: At the end of each battle round, 
the objective marker is worth 1 victory point to the 
player who controls it - keep a running score from 
battle round to battle round. A player controls the 
objective marker if there are more models from their 
army within 3" of the centre of the marker than there 
are enemy models. 


Player A 

Deployment Zone 



Player C 


Deployment Zone 



Player B 

Deployment Zone 



TO DOUBT IS TO FAIL. 







Attacker 

Wins 


Defender 

Wins 


Attacker 

Wins 


Defender 

Wins 


Attacker 

Wins 


Defender 

Wins 


A r 


O 


TIMIDITY BEGETS INDECISION; INDECISION BEGETS TREACHERY. 




Taking you beyond one-off battles, campaigns can add a new dimension to your gaming, giving each 
victory and defeat greater meaning. Essentially, they tell a story that unfolds with every new engagement, 
where the result of each battle will be affected by the one before and influence the one after. 


Once you fight a number of battles with your army, 
you’re likely to find that a narrative develops out of 
the action on the battlefield. Perhaps one unit gains a 
reputation for surviving against the odds, or one of your 
Characters begins a bitter rivalry with one from an army 
they face regularly. 

Campaigns are a great way of developing this natural 
narrative, providing it with a clearly defined structure 
and giving each battle you fight greater meaning. In 
essence, a campaign is simply a series of battles that 
are linked by a mechanism such as a map, flowchart or 
overarching story. Campaigns offer a style of gaming 
where armies gain battle honours and commanders 
hone their skills as the action progresses. 

As you play and progress through the campaign, 
you will get to know and anticipate the strengths, 
weaknesses and strategies of your fellow players. 
Friendly rivalries abound, and are all part of the fun - as 
well as giving you the opportunity to capitalise on your 
victories, campaigns also allow you to seek retribution 
for your defeats! 


A campaign can be as small or as extensive as you like. 
For instance, you could pitch your army against that 
of a friend and spend a day playing a short campaign 
that encompasses a skirmish, an epic main battle and 
a desperate last stand. Several friends could use a 
campaign as motivation for building their armies, where 
each week the players add a new unit to their forces and 
play again. There are many different types of campaign, 
but here are some examples of the most common kinds. 

TREE CAMPAIGNS 

Tree campaigns are a series of linked games, with the 
outcome of each one affecting the conditions of the 
next. For example, a simple tree campaign could consist 
of three battles (see below). In the first, one army is 
patrolling its territory (the defender), while the other 
must silence the patrols to gain the advantage (the 
attacker). If the attacking player wins the battle, the next 
mission sees them use this advantage to ambush the 
defender’s forces. If the defender wins the first battle, 
the next mission is a rescue, as the attacker has to make 
a daring strike to retrieve the lone survivor of that 


PATROL 

(pg 200) 


AMBUSH! 

(pg 198) 

The Attacker has 2 free CPs 
to spend on the Night Raider 
Stratagem (pg 199). 


RESCUE 

(Pg 206) 

The Defender has the Extra 
Sentries Stratagem (pg 207) 
for free. 


SABOTAGE 

(Pg 204) 

The Defender must increase the 
CP cost of every Stratagem they 
use by 1 during this mission. 


BLITZ 

<Pg 202) 

The winner of the previous 
mission has D6 extra CPs to 
spend on Stratagems. 


MEAT GRINDER 

(Pg 196) 

The Attacker must increase the 

CP cost of every Stratagem they 
use by 1 during this mission. 























v- 


failed first mission. The result of the second basttle will 
determine which mission is played next, and the winner 
of that mission wins the campaign! 


restricted to battles - you can always write rules for 
supply lines, reinforcements, natural disasters and so on! 


MATRIX CAMPAIGNS 

Matrix campaigns require forward planning, with each 
battle affected by the choices you make at the start. They 
give you the opportunity to outmanoeuvre your foe in 
a series of linked games, using guile to win the day, but 
the mechanics are quite simple. Each player secretly 
picks an option from a list before each battle - the 
different choices will come together on the matrix to 
determine which mission to use. Below is an example 
that you could use to decide not only the mission you 
play, but which player has managed to gain an advantage 
over their opponent. You could use this matrix multiple 
times in the same campaign, or design your own with 
your opponent for the engagements that you fight later 
in the campaign, with additional bonuses or penalties. 


THE NEXT STEP 

Once you have developed a taste for campaigning, you 
can make use of increasingly complex systems - some 
of these methods can be combined for an even more 
engaging experience. For example, you can incorporate 
a matrix into a map campaign and use your knowledge 
of the terrain to make the best strategical choices. 


MAP CAMPAIGNS 

Map campaigns provide a dynamic geographical setting 
for your battles which you can explore as the campaign 
progresses. Each player might start with their own 
territory, marked out on a grid or even a Realm of Battle 
board modelled to represent the contested world. As 
battles are won and lost, territory might be taken over, 
key assets might be seized, and empires carved out that 
will be forever remembered. The action might not be 


WARLORD 


WARLDRD’S 

GHDIGE 

Advance 

Hold 

Reconnoitre 

Flank 

Reinforce 

Advance 

Retrieval Mission 

(pg 218) 

Blitz (pg 202) 
(Warlord B is the 
Attacker) 

Patrol (pg 200) 
(Warlord B is the 
Attacker) 

Ambush! (pg 198) 
(Warlord A is the 
Attacker) 

No Mercy (pg 219) 

Hold 

Blitz (pg 202) 
(Warlord A is the 
Attacker) 

Deadlock (pg 235) 

Cleanse and 
Capture (pg 230) 

Meat Grinder 

(pg 196) (Warlord 

B is the Attacker) 

Meat Grinder 

(pg 196) (Warlord 

A is the Attacker) 

Reconnoitre 

Patrol (pg 200) 
(Warlord A is the 
Attacker) 

Cleanse and 
Capture (pg 230) 

Patrol (pg 200) 
(choose Attacker 
randomly) 

The Scouring 

(pg 220) 

Sabotage (pg 204) 
(Warlord B is the 
Attacker) 

Flank 

Ambush! (pg 198) 
(Warlord B is the 
Attacker) 

Meat Grinder 

(pg 196) (Warlord 

A is the Attacker) 

The Scouring 

(pg 220) 

Cloak and 
Shadows (pg 234) 

Ambush! (pg 198) 
(Warlord B is the 
Attacker) 

Reinforce 

No Mercy (pg 219) 

Meat Grinder 

(pg 196) (Warlord 

B is the Attacker) 

Sabotage (pg 204) 
(Warlord A is the 
Attacker) 

Ambush! (pg 198) 
(Warlord A is the 
Attacker) 

Tactical 

Escalation 

(pg 232) 


For matrix campaigns, each warlord chooses their strategy in secret before revealing them simultaneously, and then 
cross-references their choices to determine which mission they will play. In this example, if Warlord A chose ‘Hold’ 
and Warlord B chose ‘Flank’, the two would play the Meat Grinder mission, with Warlord A as the Attacker. 


WE MUST BE UNSLEEPING IN VIGILANCE, SWIFT IN JUDGEMENT, MERCILESS IN DEED. 

* ^4*$*%*. - 


v 4 " 


' m 


X 


If you’re new to campaigning, however, it’s best to 
start small. While it’s tempting to set your sights on 
conquering an entire star system, a set of linked battles 
with a manageable objective such as a capturing an 
outpost is perfect. On the other hand, if you’ve already 
enjoyed battling your way through a few games, then 
dive straight into an epic narrative campaign. This is 
the perfect forum for unleashing your creative talents, 
and provides great motivation to finish painting those 
final units or even build a whole new tabletop battlefield 
replete with sturdy fortifications, outlandish flora and all 
the scars of a protracted and hard-fought war. 


Campaigns can become great multiplayer battles where 
pacts are formed and armies expand as the sagas unfold. 
In fact, stories are at the heart of every successful 
campaign, and when combined with a sound framework 
and organisation, they provide the excitement and 
interest that keeps everyone motivated to win. 


\ 





# 




273 


h . *4# 



































DAEMONS 

That there are Daemons abroad in the 
universe, and the link that these entities 
have with the warp, is not a commonly 
known or understood phenomenon within 
the broader community of the Imperium. 
There are various reasons for this. Quite 
apart from the rarity of encounters with 
the denizens of the warp, the hierarchy 
of the Imperium has always sought to 
suppress such knowledge. What little 
awareness exists amongst the peoples of 
the Imperium is never openly or officially 
acknowledged. Tales of the warp, and its 
unpleasant inhabitants, are dismissed as 
scaremongering or mere superstition. 

The Imperium, or at least its more senior 
agents, is quite determined to prevent 
the spread of daemonic infestation. It 
is known amongst the cognoscenti that 
the ways of the Daemon are deceitful 
and devious and that they have subtle 
ways to infiltrate human societies and 
influence the human mind. Many are 
the strange, twisted cults and secretive 
covens of Daemon worshippers that have 
inveigled themselves into the worlds of the 
Imperium throughout the course of its long 
history. Wherever possible, these cults are 
unearthed and eradicated, but not without 
great cost of lives, property and sanity. 

There is also the very real threat of 
possession, which, although very rare, 
is nonetheless feared above all other 
outcomes. A Daemon with such a foothold 
in realspace is both difficult to identify, at 
least in the early stages of possession, and 
a deadly and dangerous foe. Furthermore, 
the Daemon is always intent on spreading 
its taint by establishing cult worship 
and encouraging yet more possessions. 
Unchecked, such a creature can wreak 
untold damage in both the physical and 
metaphysical spheres. 

However, the primary motivation for 
keeping knowledge of Daemons secret 
is to ensure that the greater population 
is not catastrophically disturbed by such 
revelations and driven to madness, despair 
and mass civil unrest through the knowing 
of them. There is a world of difference 
between understanding that there are 
vile, antipathetic alien species at large 
in the universe and knowing that one’s 
immortal soul is at risk from predation by 
unholy daemonic entities from a hellish 
dimension a mere thought away from our 
own. Also, as dangerous as warp travel may 
be perceived to be, if the general populace 
were to realise that it was, in fact, through a 
realm inhabited by Daemons, it is unlikely 
that anyone would willingly submit 
themselves to such a means of transport or 


trust any of the astropathic messages sent 
through it. The resultant anarchy would be 
threat enough to completely destabilise an 
already strained Imperium. 

Thus, only the most stout-hearted and 
iron-willed are permitted to know and 
retain knowledge of the Daemons and their 
masters, the Dark Gods. The bearers of 
this knowledge are few, and they share this 
information reluctantly. The Inquisition, 
their erstwhile allies, the Grey Knights, and 
a few others are among the tiny number of 
humans who are allowed to know of the 
Daemons’ existence. Most others who come 
into contact with them are culled to prevent 
both the promulgation of knowledge and 
the possible spread of daemonic taint. If 
they are of sufficient value to the Imperium, 
they are instead mind-wiped to erase all 
memories of the encounter. 

ASTROPATHIC 

COMMUNICATION 

A brief treatise on the basics of Astropathic 
transmission (Imp. Ref. 0253870007/SA). 

There are many methods of communication 
within a single planetary orbit and even 
within compact star systems, ranging from 
the mundane to the esoteric. However, 
the majority of the Imperium’s colonised 
worlds are so far apart from other star 
systems that other means are required to 
stay in contact with the wider Imperium - 
to pass messages over such great interstellar 
distances requires the skills and powers of 
an Astropath. 

Astropaths are the most common 
sanctioned psykers in the Imperium, having 
escaped the cruel fate that awaits those 
without the strength of mind to control 
their powers, or the will and determination 
to survive the Imperium’s strict training 
regimes. All major organisations of the 
Adeptus Terra, from the bureaucratic 
branches of the Administratum to the 
furtive offices of the Inquisition, use 
Astropaths to communicate with each 
other across the vast distances of the 
galaxy. These psykers can be found working 
alongside starship captains, rogue traders, 
planetary governors and officers from 
all branches of the military. The Adeptus 
Ministorum makes extensive use of 
Astropaths, and has built vast amphidomes 
and psi-comm spires that rise high over 
every shrine world, aiding their spiritual 
broadcasts and creating an interlocking 
transmission web that at least partially 
connects many dioceses and parishes, 
though the most powerful can even reach 
some of the far missionaries on the edges of 
the Imperium. 


It is said that the Emperor, the greatest of 
all psychic minds, once held full telepathic 
conversations with Malcador the Hero, 
himself a mighty telepath. Though they 
were at opposite ends of the known galaxy, 
there was no time delay to speak of, and 
they may as well have been in the same 
room. Although human psykers of such 
extreme potency no longer stride among 
the stars, so long as the warp is relatively 
calm, the most powerful Astropaths can 
single-handedly send messages across 
several star systems with some accuracy. If 
all goes well, telepathic communications 
travel quickly through the warp, crossing 
many thousands of light years, becoming 
fainter and fainter, before eventually fading 
out altogether. Still, such communications 
vary widely based on the mental strength 
of the sender, the ability of the receiver 
to absorb such incoming messages and, 
perhaps most of all, the unpredictable 
nature of the warp itself. When the galactic 
distance required of a transmission is 
so great that a single Astropath proves 
insufficient, it is common for them to work 
in relays, sending messages to various 
beacons, hubs and Imperial sub-stations 
to pass along. It is also possible to boost 
a message by using an Astropath Choir 
- a group working in synchronicity to 
broadcast or receive complex messages over 
unimaginable distances. 

It is too complicated and variable to list 
all of the methods and processes involved 
in Astropath communications, but the 
following generalisations should help even 
a novice understand some of the difficulties 
of the medium. There are, after all, dozens 
of types of Trance Broadcasts alone, to 
mention nothing of Station Reception, 
Astral Projection or the nearly infinite 
styles of Divination practised by Astropaths 
within (and beyond) the purview of 
Imperial Sanction. Using mesmeric chants 
to enter a deep trance, a typical Astropath 
forms the message within his mind and 
sends it through the warp. The progress 
of the message is rather like a stone 
dropped into a pool, as it creates a series 
of ripples that extend outwards through 
the immaterium. Some psychics are able to 
project the message so that it travels only 
in a desired direction, but even then, some 
echoes are likely to lap outwards. 

Once projected, a message hurtles through 
the warp until its energy is lost and it fades 
away, typically a gradual process, but the 
immaterium is anything but predictable. 
Communications of this kind have many 
restrictions; they are brief in length, 
perhaps comprising only a few images or 
sentences depending on how the Astropath 
works, (psychics are as likely to work in 
abstract pictures and emotions as they are 


FAITH WITHOUT DEEDS IS WORTHLESS. 

al * ■'">... J .v ., ; j. 














words). As with all things, the very chaos 
of the warp can alter the form of a message, 
if only rarely its intent. Unless powered 
by a mighty source, longer or more 
complex messages risk getting unravelled 
in the ripples of the warp, arriving in a 
jumbled order and risking further, if not 
complete, distortion. Warp interference 
is common, as messages can be delayed, 
muddled or contaminated by any number 
of fluctuations, such as shifts in warp tides 
or the intermingling of multiple telepathic 
signals. Raging warp storms can redirect 
or simply swallow and destroy messages, 
blocking communiques for centuries. 


Ominously, some telepathic impulses 
attract unwanted attention - mischievous 
warp entities that attempt to alter messages, 
making them misleading or obscene, 
redirecting them to the wrong recipient, or 
perhaps even attaching themselves to the 
mental transmissions, piggybacking on the 
message to its final destination. Although 
rare, it is possible for Daemons themselves 
to become aware of and attracted to the 
psychic signals hurtling through their 
realm. On occasion, they will even trace 
them back to their source, searching for a 
way to establish a claw-hold in realspace. 



Success of this kind is linked more to 
random chance than any degree of skill or 
accuracy on the part of the recipient. 


Any Astropath can pick up Trance 
Broadcasts, although in general it can 
be said that more discipline is needed to 
receive messages than to send them. With 
outgoing messages, an Astropath can 
concentrate on the clarity of thought, on the 
message itself, pushing such deliberations 
deep into the warp. Astropaths in such a 
trance and actively receiving incoming 
messages are particularly vulnerable - their 
minds must open to the eternal noise of 
that erratic and highly dangerous realm. 

Not only must an Astropath attempt to sift 
out the senseless static of passing currents, 
they must also contend with the residue 
of ancient messages that sometimes (for 
no logical reason) drift endlessly, not 
losing power but continuing to call from 
some distant past, faint waves of energy 
lapping across the void. The repercussive 
warp-waves of major events or cataclysms 
can also be picked up, sometimes 
unintentionally, sending more sensitive 
Astropaths into fits or burning out their 
minds altogether with the onslaught. 


The need for interstellar communication 
is enormous, and the Scholastica Psykana 
is constantly bombarded with requests for 
sanctioned Astropaths. They are a common 
sight in the more civilised sectors of the 
Imperium, easily distinguished by their 
green robes and sightless, sunken eye 
sockets. Although only released for duty 
once they have cleared all sanctioning 
tests and the holy ritual known as the Soul 
Binding, in which they face the psychic 
might of the Emperor himself, the nature 
of their occupation puts them in nearly 
constant danger and there have been 
documented cases of Astropaths becoming 
corrupted (see crossfile, datascroll 
Ref. 0062132005). 


HIGH LORDS 
OF TERRA 


The Senatorum Imperialis has, at its roots, 
many echoes from ruling bodies formed 
before the birth of the Imperium. In the 
beginning of the age, the Emperor himself 
ruled, although he formed about him 
a council of advisors comprised of key 
individuals. This top circle contained the 
Fabricator General of Mars, the Paternova 
of the Navigator Houses and Malcador the 
Sigillite, perhaps the Emperor’s greatest 
ally during the Unification Wars of Terra. 
As the Emperor left the home world of 
Mankind to lead the Great Crusade, he left 
the legendary Malcador to more or less act 
as regent in his stead. 


An Astropath who wishes to send a singular 
message to a specific location - whether it is 
a particular spacecraft, planet, hive or even 
an individual - must be able to concentrate 
his mind to a degree that is unimaginable 
to a normal human. These messages are 
launched into the warp not as ripples 
extending outwards in all directions, but as 
a single bolt of pure thought. The recipient 
must be prepared to receive such a powerful 
transmission, though it is still possible for 
those in Sweeping Trance Reception to pick 
up snippets of such messages if they happen 
to pass through their area of their psychic 
awareness on the way to their destination. 


Over the course of that vast military 
campaign, which reclaimed the galaxy and 
freed Humanity from enslavement, the 
Emperor discovered the lost Primarchs and 
brought them into the fold. As the Great 
Crusade began to branch off in many new 
directions, the Emperor grew to rely on 
his new battle council. After the decisive 
victory at the Battle of Ullanor, when 
Mankind’s reascension was no longer in 
doubt, the Emperor left military matters in 
the hands of Horus, his newly appointed 
Warmaster, and returned to Terra. 


Whilst Horus directed the rest of the 
Primarchs in the expansion and security 
of this new realm, the Emperor formed 
the Council of Terra. This formalised the 
role of the Emperor’s previous advisors 


pro? 



and the group started off with a half-dozen 
men. This council, under the leadership of 
the Emperor, was to become the body of 
government that would administrate the 
myriad bureaucratic tasks needed by the 
newly formed empire. Already, under the 
far-seeing eyes of Malcador, the Adeptus 
Administratum was born, new branches 
immediately forming beneath its auspices. 
It was a bright start for the new Dawn of 
Mankind envisioned by the Emperor. 


In addition to the Council of Terra, the 
Primarchs - under the Warmaster - were 
to head the military branches, now in the 
latter days of the Great Crusade and spread 
far across the galaxy. As it turns out, this 
was a contentious decision. Some of the 
Primarchs took great exception to being 
administered by those deemed less worthy 
of such honours than themselves. It cannot 
be proven, but doubtless this turned out to 
be one of many growing resentments that 
allowed the Ruinous Powers to infect and 
corrupt several of the Primarchs. 


The High Lords of Terra are the governing 
body of the Imperium, tasked with 
interpreting the Emperor’s will and enacting 
his rule across the largest empire in the 
galaxy. On their command, the armies of 
the Imperium move; only their edict can 
approve a Space Marine Founding, and on 
their orders the Black Fleet sails and their 
grim tithes are collected. Yet how, beneath 
the Benevolent Emperor, has such an 
organisation come to be? 


Following the calamities of the Horus 
Heresy, the Emperor was interred upon 
the Golden Throne and could no longer 
rule his realm directly. Several legends 
tell of the Emperor’s last words, spoken 
as he was attached to the vast machinery 
that would allow his mind to live on. 

Full of foresight beyond mortal men, the 
Emperor’s final instructions were for the 
rule of the Imperium. In that time of great 
change, Malcador too was gone, and it had 
been he who had proven best able to enact 
the Emperor’s vision. His role, and the 
leadership for the coming reformation, fell 
to Roboute Guilliman, the great Primarch 
of the Ultramarines. It was he who set 
up the new ruling body, the Senatorum 
Imperialis, or as it is now more commonly 
known, the High Lords of Terra. It was 
their duty to interpret the will of the 
Emperor and, in his stead, to command 
the Imperium. The number of this ruling 
council was set at twelve, with Roboute 
Guilliman himself taking a seat under the 
title of Lord Commander of the Imperium, 
the old term Warmaster having fallen out of 
favour for obvious reasons. 


Since those days, the number of seats 
on the High Lords of Terra has largely 
remained the same, fluctuating during 
various points of crisis before eventually 
returning to its original number. Each seat 
is filled by a leader from one of the most 
powerful organisations of the Imperium. 

A complex web of tradition, skulduggery, 
promises of support, threats of retaliation 
and considerations of mutual interest 
binds them together and determines who 
holds office and who does not. In practice, 
some of the Imperium’s organisations and 
institutions are so powerful and vital that 
it would be unthinkable for their leader to 
not be granted a seat upon the High Lords 
of Terra. Naturally, however, over the long 
millennia, the unthinkable has happened 


EXCUSES ARE THE REFUGE OF THE WEAK. 

... . 


! 'sa 


1 


- jfe 
























* 






many times over, though the existing 
High Lords often put in place measures 
to ensure that their seat is a permanent 
one - that upon their deaths their position 
is automatically filled by the new head of 
their organisation. The following offices 
are almost invariably represented as High 
Lords because they form the cornerstones 
of the Imperium, the most important of its 
ancient institutions: 


Lord Commander of the Imperium, 

Roboute Guilliman 

Master of the Administratum 

Fabricator General of the 

Adeptus Mechanicus 

Paternoval Envoy of the Navigators 

Inquisitorial Representative 

Master of the Adeptus Astra Telepathica 

Ecclesiarch of the Adeptus Ministorum 

Grand Master of the Officio Assassinorum 

Master of the Astronomican 


Those nine posts are virtually sacrosanct 
and, with the notable exception of Roboute 
Guilliman’s long absence, there are very few 
times in the history of the Imperium when 
these seats upon the High Lords of Terra 
became empty and were not filled with a 
successor from the same organisation. 


It is worth noting that a specific Inquisitor 
does not typically hold the position 
of Inquisitorial Representative on his 
own, but instead, the seat is retained for 
whichever individual is sent on behalf of 
the Inquisition for a particular session. 
Similarly, the place of the Paternoval Envoy 
is open to whoever is the Envoy of the 
Paternova of the current ruling family of 
Navigators. The Paternova himself never 
leaves the Palace of Navigators, for it is 
forbidden for him to do so. 


The remaining three posts are usually 
filled from amongst the following 
mighty officials: 


• Lord Commander of Segmentum Solar 

• Lord Commander Militant of the 
Astra Militarum 

• Lord High Admiral of the Imperial Navy 

• Cardinal(s) of the Holy Synod of Terra 

• Abbess Sanctorum of the 
Adepta Sororitas 

• Captain-General of the Adeptus Custodes 

• Grand Provost Marshal of the 
Adeptus Arbites 

• Chancellor of the Estate Imperium 

• Speaker for the Chartist Captains 


It is an oddity that, throughout its history, 
very few members of the Adeptus Astartes 
have served as High Lords of Terra - given 
the importance of Humanity’s most elite 
fighting force and the fact that the first 
council was initiated by Roboute Guilliman, 
the Primarch of the Ultramarines. This 
seems to have been set up intentionally by 
Guilliman, who knew that at times of great 
need, Space Marine leaders would have no 
choice but to step in, but should otherwise 
remain outside the ruling structure. Some 


say the Primarch’s discouragement of 
Space Marines serving in the Senatorum 
Imperialis was based upon the Emperor’s 
original Council of Terra - which was 
separate from his Military Council, 
and a ruling body that did not include 
any members of the Adeptus Astartes. 
Guilliman clearly believed - as his great 
work, the Codex Astartes, points out - 
that it is the Space Marines’ duty to serve 
Mankind, not to rule it. 


In its long existence, the High Lords of 
Terra have gone through many changes. 
They have been forced to give one of 
its seats over to a religious leader (the 
Ecclesiarch, who joined shortly after the 
Imperial Cult was named the sole religion 
of the Imperium in early M32), wiped 
out to a man by assassination (on the 
orders of a slighted Grand Master of the 
Officio Assassinorum, an event known as 
‘the Beheading’) and dissolved altogether 
by the ruling Ecclesiarch (during the 
civil war known as the Age of Apostasy). 
Many members have disappeared 
under suspicious circumstances and the 
Inquisition has been asked to investigate 
a number of times (although many have 
suggested that at least some missing Lords 
of Terra have disappeared because of the 
Inquisition). Yet always, despite the many 
power struggles and strife, the High Lords 
of Terra have continued to interpret the 
Will of the Emperor and thereby rule the 
greatest empire in the galaxy. 


EXCERPTS ON 
WARP TRAVEL 


Notes of Sharim Calypso, Adjutant advisor 
to the Imperial Navy. Ref. MCS17-82h.57c 


The Questio Logisticus branch of the 
Adeptus Administratum has a division 
devoted to tracking median travel via 
common warp routes. Although only two 
millennia worth of data has been compiled, 
it has thus far proven little, save what is 
already known - to enter warp space is a 
deadly and unpredictable risk. 


By way of an example, note the logbook 
of the Proxxian traders that operate in the 
Nephilim Sector. They primarily transport 
forced labour, from the hive world of 
Proxx to the isolated mining colonies of 
Hephastian, approximately three times 
each Terran year. The distance is dozens of 
light years and requires a fleet to traverse 
the immaterium. The route is anything 
but predictable, despite being classed as a 
semi-fluctuating passage (the most stable 
rating). Typical voyages range between 
one and six weeks, but the more extreme 
journeys have taken as much as 1,200 years 
and as little as two minutes. Some 22% 
of expeditions have, as of yet, not arrived 
at their destination - although given the 
time disparity, one can only estimate what 
percentage have been lost and which are 
still en route. In distance, this is a relatively 


short voyage; the numbers only grow worse 
with longer journeys. 


STC SYSTEMS 




It is my observation that little more can be 
learned from further computations and 
that the old Navigator maxim, ‘Trust in the 
Emperor’s Light’, remains the one truism of 
value concerning warp travel. 


Created at the developmental apex of the 
Age of Technology, the Standard Template 
Construct (STC) system was a way to 
ensure that all the recently far-flung human 
colonies across the galaxy could build 
anything they needed, from air-purifiers 
to military-grade weaponry, hab-buildings 
to plasma reactors. The user simply asked 
the machine how to build what was needed 
and it would calculate everything - from 
locally available materials to the means of 
manufacture and assembly - and present 
the most efficient way to achieve what the 
settler asked. TheSTCs were designed so 
that the least-accomplished user could still 
fabricate the vehicle, building, or weapon 
they needed. For all intents and purposes, 
the STCs were the sum total of Man’s 
technical know-how at its zenith of power. 


Every human colony had at least one 
STC system, although most colonists 
never tapped into anything like the more 
advanced constructs, finding the more 
rudimentary machines and weapons far 
more useful. It is highly probable that few 
of the theoretical or most highly advanced 
works were ever attempted. Over the 
passage of time, a majority of the STC 
machines were lost, destroyed in battle 
or by natural disaster, or began to fail, 
overcome at last by corrupted databanks, 
too much jury-rigging in place of 
knowledgeable maintenance, or simply the 
fatigue of thousands of years of use. Those 
lucky planets that still maintained even 
a partially working STC system grew to 
guard it jealously as the Age of Technology 
slipped into the anarchic madness of the 
Age of Strife. Soon, the galaxy-wide realm 
of Man was fractured, each world cut off 
from all but its closest neighbours. The 
madness, warfare and warp-spawned 
invasions, along with a great backlash 
against technology, ensured that few of the 
great works of the previous era survived. 


Today, there are no surviving STC 
systems. It was common practice, however, 
beginning in the Age of Technology, for 
colonies to produce hard copies of many 
of the more standard designs. Over the 
years, these have been copied repeatedly, 
with varying levels of accuracy. Yet, as 
commonplace as many of these designs 
once were, now any copy is a rarefied item, 
even more so for any that carry precious 
first-generation printout information. 
During the Great Crusade and later, during 
the period known as the Forging, thousands 
upon thousands of previously colonised 


LIFE’S PURPOSE IS TO SERVE THE EMPEROR. 


... grfN*, 


jr" 











One result of the STC system, and its 
pivotal place in human development, 
is that many worlds utilise designs and 
machinery of a similar type. Of course, 
the millennia have wrought changes in the 
basic utilitarian devices prescribed by the 
STC, but many humans adhere religiously 
to the old designs. STC designs were 
intended to be able to cope with anything, 
given the unpredictable nature of colonies 
in previously unexplored space. Therefore, 
designs were often big and brutish, hard 
to damage and easy to repair. Examples of 
recovered STC technology are still being 
built and remain in use, including such 
military hardware as the Rhino Armoured 
Personnel Carrier and the Land Raider, 
as well as the atmospheric pumps that 
still keep the air (almost) breathable in 
even the largest hive-blocks. The Adeptus 
Mechanicus still searches for copies of 
undiscovered templates, or perhaps a 
fully functioning STC system. Until then, 
gone are the secrets for the trident-shaped 
Proteus Cannon of Mars or the force 
field generators that guard the Palace of 
Xerxes, and countless other marvels whose 
workings even the most adept of the Tech- 
Priests can’t begin to fathom. 


ABHUMANS 

Abhumans are evolved from human stock, 
but changed or mutated to a greater or 
lesser degree. They differ from true mutants 
in that they conform to a recognisable 
physical standard, breed true, and are no 
more prone than normal humans to further 
mutation. There are billions of abhumans 
living within the Imperium and they are 
tolerated and exploited by the authorities 
very much as the rest of the population. It is 
rare for them to reach positions of authority 
or power within the Imperial hierarchy and 
many are subject to popular derision, fear 
or prejudice. Many abhumans are recruited 
into the service of the Administratum and 
its various sub-divisions, including the 
Imperial Guard and the Imperial Fleet. In 
the Imperial Guard, they are organised and 
fight in dedicated squads or companies, 
segregated from their human comrades. 

The Adeptus Terra officially recognises 
seventy-three stable abhuman strains within 


the Imperium. Of these, forty-six types are 
now listed as extinct, and no records have 
been received of a further twelve strains for 
over a generation, suggesting that they too 
have died out or been assimilated back into 
the general population. The status of the 
remaining fifteen abhuman races is quite 
varied and there is permanent disagreement 
about their specific classification amongst 
the adepts of the overseeing sub-division 
of the Adeptus Administratum: the Tithes 
Chamber Notaries, sub. Planetary Census 
(Abhumans). The most noteworthy and 
contentious matter concerning the adepts 
is the Ogryn (Homo sapiens gigantus) 
matrix of abhuman strains. This complex 
group is currently officially listed as seven 
distinct types (Alpha, Theta, Type IV, Type 
Vila, H.S. gigantus gigantus, H.S. gigantus 
cranopus and the mysterious Grey Ogryns), 
but many in the Chamber doubt that these 
are all separate types, and revision of the 
classification is therefore pending. 

Ratlings (Homo sapiens minimus), Squats 
(Homo sapiens rotundus), Beastmen 
(Homo sapiens variatus), Troths (Homo 
sapiens verdantus), Longshanks (Homo 
sapiens elongatus), Pelagers (Homo sapiens 
oceanus), Felinids (Homo sapiens hirsutus) 
and Neandors (Homo sapiens hyannothus) 
comprise the remaining classified, and 
officially recognised, abhuman races. 

Of these, Beastmen are subject to severe 
persecution and have been placed on the 
Register of Proscribed Citizens (Class 
A-G worlds) by the Adeptus Arbites. This 
effectively precludes them from settlement 
on, or transportation to or from, more 
than three hundred thousand worlds of the 
Imperium and forbids their conscription as 
an Imperial Tithe obligation. All of this is a 
sure sign that they will soon lose abhuman 
status completely and be reclassified as true 
mutants. Troths, Felinids and Neandors are 
endemic, and restricted to the worlds of 
Verdant, Carlos McConnell and Hyannoth 
IV respectively. The remaining abhuman 
races are variously present across the 
entire Imperium. In some regions they 
are plentiful and common, living in 
large colonies or even populating entire 
worlds, while in others they are scarce and 
virtually unknown. 

BLACK SHIPS 

The great fleet of Black Ships belongs to the 
Adeptus Astra Telepathica. Independent of 
the Imperial Navy, they are the second- 
largest fleet in the galaxy. There are many 
thousands of Black Ships, but only the 
highest-ranking adepts in the Adeptus 
Astra Telepathica know the true scale of the 
fleet and the vast scope of its operations. 
New vessels are constantly commissioned 
to replace inevitable losses and to further 
increase the fleet’s size. Thus it is that 
each year, more and more planets of the 
Imperium are visited and stripped of their 
psykers for transportation to Terra. 


planets were reclaimed for Humanity. Many 
STC reproductions were found amongst 
these worlds and, it is rumoured, even some 
partially working systems were unearthed. 
These long-lost troves of forgotten 
technology were mostly discovered buried 
amidst the ruins of greatly regressed worlds, 
but occasionally they were found enshrined 
within locked vaults, guarded by those to 
whom the name STC, or even its purpose, 
had long passed out of understanding. 

Any such findings are greedily collected by 
the Adeptus Mechanicus; the Tech-Priests 
rush such treasures back to their secretive 


forge worlds, where they can be thoroughly 
studied, hoarded, worshipped and copied. 


The captains and other senior officers of the 
Black Ships are senior adepts of the Adeptus 
Astra Telepathica. The ships’ crews are 
indentured workers drafted from a number 
of Imperial worlds situated relatively close 
to Terra. The Astra Telepathica have ancient 
contracts with these worlds, ensuring a 
steady flow of suitable recruits in return for 
exemption from Imperial Tithes. All crew 
are rigorously tested and scrutinised for any 
latent psychic abilities or sensitivities and 
are regularly mind-scrubbed to purge any 
taint or infection. 

Navigators for the fleet of Black Ships are 
all members of the Granicus, Ptolemy 
and MacPherson Navigator Houses who 
work exclusively for the Astra Telepathica. 
Inquisitors, alone amongst Imperium 
officials, have secured Rights of Passage 
aboard the Black Ships and have leave 
to travel freely throughout the entire 
fleet. They are also wont to oversee the 
identification, capture and incarceration 
of particularly recalcitrant or rebellious 
psykers in whom they have a personal 
interest. Generally, few other Imperial 
agents are permitted aboard these dread 
vessels but occasionally Space Marines, 
Sisters of Battle or higher-ranking 
members of the Adeptus Terra may be 
accommodated at the captain’s discretion. 


A Black Ship is a dreadful environment 
for psykers. Psychically sensitive crew 
spend most of their time in the shielded 
upper decks of the main bridge, as far 
removed from the containment holds 
as possible so as to avoid the unpleasant 
effects of the security measures in place. 
There are numerous devices and routines 
directed at the great holds to confuse and 
confound psychic abilities. Each ship has 
a troop of specially trained adepts whose 
sole function is to focus their own psychic 
energies into an Occluding Sphere - this 
strange metaphysical device broadcasts an 
invasive signal into the mind of any nearby 
psyker, severely disrupting their ability 
to concentrate or reason and therefore 
largely curtailing their ability to utilise their 
talents. In addition to this, oppressively 
loud and discordant noise is pumped into 
the holds, which are dimly illuminated for 
the most part but frequently lit with bursts 
of strobing light to shatter the twilight. 

Food and drink for the captives is laced 
with sedatives. The captive population is 
regularly moved from one hold to another. 
All of this serves to keep the psykers in a 
helpless, confused and compliant state. The 
most dangerous psykers (as identified by 
Inquisitorial scrutiny) are kept in separate 
isolation cells deep within the bowels of the 
containment holds. 


Every day, dozens of Black Ships complete 
their epic journey and arrive at Terra, 
whereupon they disgorge their cargoes 
of human psykers. Each ship can hold 
thousands of psykers within their vast 
holds, so each and every day, tens of 


BY THE WAY OF THEIR DEATH WE SHALL KNOW THEM. 




? - i *1 L .. 






279 

i(dfyjb 



















- 

f 


: 


V * 



thousands of psykers are sent to the 
processing halls, graded and passed on 
through the myriad departments and 
institutions responsible for ensuring that 
the Tithe is put to its allotted uses. 

COMBAT LIFE SAVER 

Lesson 243.77fIVs. 

HOW TO FIELD DRESS A LAS WOUND 

Laser weapons are easy to produce and 
maintain, assuring they are amongst the 
most common weapons in the galaxy. Las 
weapons do not fire a projectile or slug, 
but instead project a high-energy pulse. 

This beam can range greatly in strength, 
depending on the size of the las weapon 
and the rating of its power source. The 
largest of the las weapons - such as the 
lancestrike batteries employed upon 
spacecraft of the Imperial Navy - produce 
beams that can sear away entire hab-blocks, 
leaving only smoking craters hundreds of 
feet deep. On average, however, las weapons 
are much smaller. Even the humble 
laspistol, within close range and with no 
atmospheric diffusion of shot, has the 
power to blast away a foe’s face on contact, 
with the beam penetrating the skull and 
burning a hole through the brain, causing 
immediate death. 

A las-pulse will shear through flesh to 
produce a cauterised hole surrounded by 
blister-burns. When first striking flesh, a 
las-pulse will cause a flash-burn effect on 
impact, as the heat of the discharge causes 
the immediate surface area of the target 
to be vaporised. This can, to the untrained 
eye, take on the same wound aspects as 
those left by high-density explosives, but 
there are major differences when it comes 
to field dressing las wounds. While the brief 
exploding flash of initial contact is highly 
visible, it is rarely the major concern. It is 
typically the continuing projection of the 
las-beam boring into the body that causes 
the most extensive damage - the beam will 
punch through any internal organs and is 
capable of severing limbs. 

The following steps should be employed 
when confronted with a las wound: 

I) Approach. Do not treat until you have 
ensured the victim is removed from the 
source. Las weapons produce a narrow 
amplified beam of light. Most often 
this is a short burst, however, should 
the shaft be ongoing and still present, 

it is dangerous to approach - entering 
the beam will cause you to become a 
casualty as well. 

II) Expose. Identify the impact site and 
determine the extent of the flash burn. 
Lift away any clothing covering the 
burnt area, without pulling material 
over the burns. Leave in place any 
material that has been seared into the 
burn area. If the victim is wearing 
armour, be aware that some materials 




absorb heat, leaving the area dangerous 
to touch. In a hazardous environment 
(such as chem-zones, rad-sites, or other 
such dangerous areas) do not cut away 
any protective covering - apply the 
dressing directly over it. 

III) Evaluate. Find the penetration level of 
the beam. Has the beam passed through 
the victim causing an exit wound? It is 
best to check as soon as possible. The 
extreme heat cauterises the wound, 
leaving minimal bleeding, however, 
rapid swelling will begin around the 
area almost immediately, making later 
diagnosis more difficult. If the las 
wound is only a glancing hit, in a limb, 
or shows no signs of striking a vital 
organ, proceed with Field Dressing 
Type I. If you suspect the las wound has 
penetrated a vital organ, go straight to 
Type II. 

IV) Field Dressing (Type I). Using the 
cleanest material available, place the 
cloth lightly over the burn, covering the 
entirety of the wound. If the victim is 
able, he may hold the dressing in place. 
Use strips to bind in place (wrapping 
around limbs or torso) and tie tightly 
enough to avoid slipping. Do not 
break blisters or apply ointments to 
flash burns. 

V) Field Dressing (Type II). Cover the 
wound as quickly and completely as 
possible. This is cosmetic, to hide the 
lethal wound from comrades, and 
may also allow the victim some false 
comfort. The swelling that follows is 
bound to cause catastrophic bodily 
failures. Death is effectively inevitable, 
and redistribution of resources can 
commence immediately. 

SERVITORS AND 
SERVO-SKULLS 

Duty to the Emperor need not end with 
death, and this is abundantly clear in the 
forms of some of his lowliest servants: 
servitors and servo-skulls. 

Servitors are the basest form of 
biomechanical life - task-adapted slaves 
whose mechanical components are 
designed so the whole can perform a single 
laborious function. They are mindless 
machines of living flesh and metal that obey 
their programming without question. A 
servitor’s mind is essentially blank, and only 
the most rudimentary instincts remain. 

Servitors make up the bulk of the Martian 
population but can be seen toiling away 
tirelessly throughout the Imperium. Many 
work in hostile environments where an 
unmodified human body would quickly 
perish. Because they are specifically 
adapted, they vary tremendously; some 
have mechanical legs or arms for lifting, 
others have computer terminals sprouting 
from their bodies where they interface 



with more complex machines. There are 
weapon-toting gun servitors, heavy mining 
cyborgs, holomats and living holographic 
recorders with bulging vid-lens optic 
receptors where eyes would be, to name 
just a few. Servitors are also seen on the 
battlefield, accompanying senior Tech- 
Priests as servants and guardians, using 
their limited skills to operate dangerous 
machinery or weaponry. 

While many servitors are adapted from 
artificially cultured drone bodies, others 
are the remains of humans who have 
committed some terrible crime. The most 
severe punishment for a criminal in the 
Imperium is not death - that would be 
wasteful and hardly serve as a useful 
deterrent. Instead, the convicted are 
turned into servitors. The malefactor is 
first mind-wiped and then augmented 
and reprogrammed to perform some 
rudimentary function too tedious even for 
the menials of the Adeptus Administratum. 
Ex-convicts who become servitors wear a 
brass plate upon their body proclaiming 
their crime, as a warning to all who would 
transgress against the laws of the Emperor 
or the Omnissiah. 

Unlike the ignominious fate of criminals, 
the fate of those who die in honoured 
service to the Emperor is sometimes to 
be allowed to continue their labours in 
the form of a servo-skull. Made from 
polished human craniums, servo-skulls are 
most closely associated with the Adeptus 
Mechanicus, but can be seen providing 
assistance to high-ranking officers and 
officials throughout the Imperium’s many 
institutions. Usually modified to facilitate 
communications or archiving of some 
kind, many of these macabre devices have 
pict-recorders, loud-hailers and scrivening 
devices built into them. They might also 
have weapons, simple manipulator pincers, 
illumination emitters, any number of 
sensors, or even surgical tools, depending 
on the needs of those who keep them. 

The most immediately obvious feature of 
a servo-skull, however, is the tiny gravity 
repulsor array that allow them to float 
through the air. 

Servo-skulls also frequently sport opulent, 
protective metal coatings which, along 
with their small size, make them extremely 
durable. More than one battlefield has been 
found long after the last shot was fired, with 
a single servo-skull floating over the ash 
and debris - the only remaining witness to 
attest to the valour or cowardice of those 
who died there. 




1 


I 

4 


THOUGHT FOR THE DAY: DAMNATION IS ETERNAL. 






,r ■ 






fl r 

H*' 

* 




< v^‘ ri 


,'"t* 


r 5fc 


|vU 


V' 



WE THINK YOU’D LIKE... 


YOU HAVE THE RULES. 

NOW BUILD YOUR ARMIES WITH A SERIES OF EBOOKS PACKED WITH 
ARMY LISTS FOR EVERY WARHAMMER 40,000 FACTION 

INDEX IMPERIUM . INDEX IMPERIUM 2 

. INDEX CHAOS 

. INDEX XENOS . INDEX XENOS 2 



o 

° 

6 



ORKS T'AU EMPIRE - IYHANIDS 
GEKESTEALER CULTS 


WARHAMMER 

40.000 

INDEX: IMPERIUM 1 


WARHAMMER 

40 . 000 \ 

INDEX: IMPERIUM 2 


SWCl MARINES BLOOD AHGELS ■ Dll i iWAR^HAMME ^R 

spmwniuFS ERfvifMmw '' ' : • ' . , 


SPACE WOLVES GREY KfflGH 
^ ✓ . OEATHWATCH LEGION OF THE DA 


INDEX: CHAOS 


IIL1TARUM ADEPTUS MECHANICUS 
IAL KNIGHTS IMPERIAL AGENTS 
TAiOHS OF THE EMPEROR 




WARHAMMER 

40000 

INDEX: XENOS I 


WARHAMMER 

, 40 . 000 % 

INDEX: XENOS 2 


riCASTAHTES CHAOS DAE |‘ 
DU 1ST DR TRAIT0RI5 


CRflnwoRLDS mum 

YNHARI HARLEQUINS NEC ROMS ^ ^ 













